

$AEM | Applied Economics & Management$
&AEM 1200 | Introduction to Business Management&
#Provides an overview of management and business. Human resource, marketing, finance, and strategy concerns are addressed with consideration paid to current issues such as technological innovation and its impact on operations, globalization, ethics, teamwork, leadership, and entrepreneurship. Opportunity to deliver an integrative group project.#
&AEM 2011 | Spreadsheet Modeling for Non-Dyson Majors&
#This Excel based course will emphasize applied decision making in the business world. This introductory course covers the theory behind decision making and applying analytic tools like Excel to various business scenarios.  Understanding the value of such skills, this course will introduce students to methods used to navigate tools and applications, or typical business scenarios where such capabilities can be leveraged in business. Students dedicated to success in this course can expect to achieve a basic to intermediate understanding of many features available in Excel.  Students will enjoy a thorough exposure to real world applications related to leveraging the tool and learn to demonstrate new analytic capabilities in a business environment. AEM2011 will help students understand the dynamics of using Excel to solve optimization problems, forecast future outcomes using assumptions and projections, and evaluate problems that involve uncertainty in order to inform business strategy and quantitative decision-making.#
&AEM 2210 | Financial Accounting&
#Comprehensive introduction to financial accounting concepts and techniques, intended to provide a basic understanding of the accounting cycle, elements of financial statements, underlying theory of GAAP, and financial statement interpretation. Topics include methods of recording inventory, receivables, depreciation, bonds, and equity. Requires two evening prelims and a final; weekly homework assignments.#
&AEM 2400 | Marketing&
#Provides a broad introduction to the fundamentals of marketing. Explores the components of an organization's strategic marketing program, including how to price, promote, and distribute goods and services. Industry guest lectures and current marketing applications from various companies are presented and analyzed.#
&AEM 2841 | Python Programming for Data Analysis and Business Modeling - Non-Dyson Majors&
#Data-driven decision making and the use of analytical approaches are critical skills for success in business. Analytics skills are increasing in demand and in many cases, are required for business professionals. The new technologies and development such as personal electrical devices, social media, online shopping, … resulted in exponential growth in the amount of data we generate and collect on a daily basis. Companies are highly interested in extracting knowledge from these sources. To be able to manipulate and analyze a large structured and unstructured dataset, you need to learn how to code. In this course, by learning Python, one of the most popular programming languages, you are taking a significant step in data analysis. You will learn how to design and code an algorithm and manipulate datasets.#
&AEM 3121 | Branding and Brand Management&
#Branding has become one of the most important aspects of business strategy. A strong understanding of branding is essential for the success of a business. This course provides an opportunity to internalize the concepts, principles and tools important in successful branding. The course covers the building blocks and principles of branding and strategy, importance of brand equity and how to build and manage brand equity. What is a brand? How can a brand stay relevant? What is brand strategy? How are meaningful brands created? Why do some brands have greater longevity and loyalty? How to reach the target audience? This course will provide opportunities to understand the building blocks of a strong brand and apply strategies and techniques. Students will develop acumen and confidence in their strategic and analytical ability working with discussions, assignments, readings and problem solving. Students will develop enhanced strategic skills, conceptual, analytical and decision-making skills.#
&AEM 3230 | Managerial Accounting&
#This course provides an introduction to the basic concepts, analyses, uses, and procedures of accounting and control used by internal company managers when they are faced with planning, directing, controlling, and decision-making activities in their organization. Topics covered focus on the relationship between strategy and decision-making and include product and service costing, budget setting, decision-making, profitability analysis, pricing, investment analysis, management control systems, and performance measurement.#
&AEM 3600 | Impact Learning: Field Study Prep Experience&
#The lectures/discussions will introduce you to the influence of race, gender, and culture on corporations, small businesses and entrepreneurial enterprises in South Africa. Cultural and historical background will be covered to promote transcultural understanding. During the course students will be introduced to their South African entrepreneurial partners with whom they will be working with prior to and during the study trip. In addition, students will learn about the concept of human centered consulting which will better enable them to be more effective and impactful consultants.#
&AEM 3991 | Global Business Strategy&
#In today's globalized and interconnected world, more and more companies are going abroad to pursue their major business objectives. How can they take advantage of the global marketplace and create economic value through their multimarket activities? This distance learning course gives students a basic grounding in global business, so they can become capable of understanding and analyzing events and trends in the global business environment and their impact on managerial decision making. Through a series of case discussions and an internationalization project for a local company, students develop practical skills in applying the tools of global strategic analysis in concrete business situations. Students registered for NBA 5991 will be required to analyze a current-event situation based on the theoretical and methodological framework developed in this course.#
&AEM 4460 | Food Marketing Fellows&
#The course focuses on current topics in food marketing and may be supplemented by field trips to food industry firms and other exposure to food industry activities and practitioners. In addition, the course includes preparation for a field study trip during the winter break period.#


$AMST | American Studies$
&AMST 2371 | Planet Rap: Where Hip Hop Came From and Where It's Going&
#Since hip hop first emerged in the South Bronx nearly half a century ago, it has grown into a global movement. Youth around the world not only consume hip hop; they also create their own, adapting hip hop music, texts, dance, and visual culture to local realities. This course traces the ongoing connections between hip hop's roots in the cultural expression of marginalized African American and Latinx youth in the postindustrial urban United States, its contemporary relationship to US popular culture, and its routes around the globe, where diverse practitioners mobilize its beats, rhymes, and visual culture to address experiences of oppression and displacement, celebrate life, and agitate for social justice.#
&AMST 2505 | Playing out Difference: History and Identity in Sports Film&
#The importance of sports to American society and popular culture cannot be denied, and this seminar will study sports films' vital significance in representing the intersection of sports, history, and social identities. This seminar explores how the role of competition between individuals and teams in sports films relate to the competing discourses on race, gender, class, and sexuality in society at large. Additionally, we will examine how social issues are understood in sporting terms and concepts, such as: the hero and the underdog; urban and rural; natural talent versus hard work; and the individual versus team identity.#
&AMST 3141 | Prisons&
#The United States stands alone among Western, industrialized countries with its persistent, high rates of incarceration, long sentences, and continued use of the death penalty. This "American exceptionalism" -- the turn to mass incarceration -- has been fostered by the use of sharply-delineated categories that define vast numbers of people as outlaws and others as law-abiding. These categories that are based on ideas of personal responsibility and assumptions about race are modified somewhat by a liberal commitment to human rights.   Our purpose in this course is to understand how such ideas have taken root and to locate the consequences of these ideas for policy and practice.#


$ANSC | Animal Science$
&ANSC 1120 | Sustainable Animal Husbandry&
#Students completing this course will explore the many roles of domestic animals and the importance of their interdependence with humans; appreciate the scope, diversity, and problems related to domestic animal systems; practice using scientific literature to research issues in sustainable agriculture. This intensive course includes 25 hours of lecture and 27 hours of hands-on laboratory/ demonstrations at various field sites and facilities all within a three-week period. Topics include domestication, sustainability, companion animals, sheep, goats, swine, beef cattle, dairy cattle, nutrition, genetics, grazing, dairy products, poultry, horses and draft animals, Third World limited-resource animal systems, toxicology and lab animals.#
&ANSC 1250 | Dairy Study Trip to Central Valley of California&
#The objective of this study trip is to expose students to the variety and scale of food production in the Central Valley of California. Students participating in this course will engage, through tours and conversations, agricultural businesses involved in cotton, tomato, almond, pistachio, citrus, beef, dairy and cheese production. In addition, there will be working dinners and lunches where students will meet and interact with CALS alumni and other industry leaders and professionals in the region.#


$ASIAN | Asian Studies$
&ASIAN 3349 | Contemporary Cambodia: Labor, Development and Society&
#This winter session course is designed to provide students with an introduction to the role of labor and industrial relations in Cambodian development. Taught over the winter break (Jan 3-Jan 17), this is a three-credit course taught in Cambodia, through the School of Continuing Education and Summer sessions. The course involves a mix of lectures and field visits. Classes will be conducted for 3 hours a day, followed by relevant field visits. Each class will be supplemented by guest lectures from Cambodian locals.#


$ASL | American Sign Language$
&ASL 1101 | American Sign Language I&
#Students with no previous background in American Sign Language (ASL) will be introduced to basic conversational techniques in ASL, including both expressive and receptive skills.  Basic grammar and vocabulary will be covered, including explanations of the fundamental parts of a sign, proper use of fingerspelling, and the significance of non-manual features. Instruction will be supplemented with videos, allowing students to begin exploring the visual literature of the Deaf community in the United States. Readings and class discussions will acquaint students with American Deaf culture, history and education, and the historical development of ASL.#


$ASRC | Africana Studies & Research Center$
&ASRC 2370 | Planet Rap: Where Hip Hop Came From and Where It's Going&
#Since hip hop first emerged in the South Bronx nearly half a century ago, it has grown into a global movement. Youth around the world not only consume hip hop; they also create their own, adapting hip hop music, texts, dance, and visual culture to local realities. This course traces the ongoing connections between hip hop's roots in the cultural expression of marginalized African American and Latinx youth in the postindustrial urban United States, its contemporary relationship to US popular culture, and its routes around the globe, where diverse practitioners mobilize its beats, rhymes, and visual culture to address experiences of oppression and displacement, celebrate life, and agitate for social justice.#


$BIOEE | Ecology & Evolutionary Biology$
&BIOEE 1610 | Introductory Biology: Ecology and the Environment&
#This course provides an introduction to ecology, covering interactions between organisms and the environment at scales of populations, communities, and ecosystems. Ecological principles are used to explore the theory and applications of major issues facing humanity in the 21st century, including population dynamics, disease ecology, biodiversity and invasive species, global change, and other topics of environmental sustainability.#
&BIOEE 2526 | Ecology and Conservation of Wildlife in the Neotropics II&
#This on-campus and international field course combination provides participating students with a broad introduction to the research process in field ecology, with literature and hands-on examples drawn from the fauna and flora of coastal Patagonia (Argentina), an area that provides us with unprecedented access to both marine and terrestrial wildlife as well as exposure to conservation challenges and success stories. The course begins in the latter part of the Fall semester (BIOEE 2525) when it meets twice weekly for seven weeks, largely to discuss relevant papers from the scientific literature with an emphasis on best practices in designing field studies to address questions in Neotropical ecology, behavioral ecology, conservation, and evolutionary biology. During the 2+ week field component in January (BIOEE 2526), students travel among field sites in Patagonia and put this knowledge to work in an experiential context by designing and implementing a series of research projects, including numerous short 'blitz' projects and several longer, more intensive independent projects; many of these field studies involve close-hand observations of marine mammals, penguins, or other seabirds. The course (BIOEE 2527) is focused on building skills in data analysis and scientific writing, based on the data collected in the field by each student.#


$BIOG | Biology: General Courses$
&BIOG 3500 | Introduction to Applied Science Communication: Digital Platforms and Public Engagement&
#Do you want to use digital platforms to reach your audience and communicate science beyond conference seminars, posters and journal articles? You need a science communication strategy! Sharing scientific discoveries is a skill that all scholars should have. In this course you will learn from librarians, local science café curators, podcast producers and from scientists and communication professionals how to build an audience using digital platforms. Fill your science communication tool box, learn how to engage a non-scientist audience through storytelling using videos, podcasts, Wikipedia editing, public science events, social media platforms, blogging and press release writing. Work in groups to apply your skills to a topic of your own research interest. An Engaged Cornell grant will support students' participation in a local science café.#


$BIOMI | Microbiology$
&BIOMI 1720 | Biomedical Terminology&
#A study of the Greek and Latin word elements that combine to form most of the specialized terms in medicine, law, and biology. Students learning the meanings of these elements and the rules of word formation can usually recognize the basic meaning of any unfamiliar word in these fields. This skill is especially valuable for pre-law, pre-medical, pre-dental, pre-veterinary students and for those in other health and legal fields, as well as for students who would like to broaden their general vocabulary.#


$CLASS | Classics$
&CLASS 1692 | Biomedical Terminology&
#A study of the Greek and Latin word elements that combine to form most of the specialized terms in medicine, law, and biology. Students learning the meanings of these elements and the rules of word formation can usually recognize the basic meaning of any unfamiliar word in these fields. This skill is especially valuable for pre-law, pre-medical, pre-dental, pre-veterinary students and for those in other health and legal fields, as well as for students who would like to broaden their general vocabulary.#
&CLASS 2604 | Greek Mythology&
#The stories of Greek Mythology have ignited the imaginations of writers and artists from antiquity to the present day, from the tragedy of Achilles to the adventures of Percy Jackson. This course surveys the most influential stories of Gods and Heroes in Greek myths, focusing on their place in ancient Greek and Roman literature, society and religion, but also tracing their course in intellectual and art history through the Renaissance to the present day.#


$COGST | Cognitive Science$
&COGST 1112 | Change-making: Designing Healthy and Hospitable Environments&
#Designing Human-Centered, Healthy and Hospitable Environments is a three-week course examining design innovations and some impacts on management/operations in hospitality,  communication, business, healthcare, and senior housing. During this course students will learn how design impacts organizations and every aspect of daily life. Using case studies, familiar  examples, and interactions with a variety of leaders from design, healthcare and hospitality fields, students will engage with design thinking and explore new career pathways.#


$COMM | Communication$
&COMM 3090 | Experiential Writing in Mexico: Cultural and Environmental Communication&
#The natural and cultural experience of 8-10 days in Mexico will serve as the inspiration for compelling written communication in this writing intensive course. Students will master writing for diverse audiences in a variety of common formats, from science communication to popular media. Keys to successful communication include; the ability to grab and maintain the reader's attention while synthesizing complex or controversial material; developing a narrative; and, above all, not distracting the reader with weak writing, lack of clarity, or poor structure. Through readings and field trips, students will explore cultural, environmental, and socioeconomic development issues in a rich and diverse landscape. These experiences will be the basis of the written assignments, augmented by research. Classes while in Mexico are full days with homework overnight.#
&COMM 4300 | Ethics in New Media, Technology, and Communication&
#This course examines moral and ethical issues in communication, new media, and technology. Using theories and research in moral philosophy and psychology, we examine how people perceive and reason about ethical issues presented by media and technology, and how moral action is influenced by cognitive, emotional, and ethical belief systems. Issues of autonomy, transparency, harm, privacy, manipulation, justice, democracy, equality, and care are discussed. We analyze the consistency between personal and professional ethics, the importance of moral character and agency, and the translation of moral thought to ethical action, and address the development of professional and personal ethical codes of conduct and research for communication professionals in the areas of new media and technology.#
&COMM 4760 | Population Health Communication&
#This senior-level undergraduate seminar provides an overview of theory and research on communication related to population health, including strategic efforts to impact health behavior and structural environments that support health, media portrayals of health issues, and news coverage of health and social policy with impacts on the health and distribution of health in populations. Topics include: theories of behavior change and message effects, campaigns to improve behavioral and structural determinants of health, the intersection of health and politics, and implications of changes in media platforms for population health campaigns and research.#
&COMM 4952 | Communication Industries: CaliCOMM II&
#This winter session field trip is an extension of fall seminar COMM 4951 which introduces students to the world of professional communication. During this trip, students travel to a rotating city (e.g. Los Angeles, San Francisco) to meet with alumni working in the communication field. Previous companies visited include: LA Chargers. Students will review relevant background information about each company prior to the trip to include Skype meetings with other communication and media firms.#
&COMM 5300 | Ethics in New Media, Technology, and Communication&
#This course examines moral and ethical issues in communication, new media, and technology. Using theories and research in moral philosophy and psychology, we examine how people perceive and reason about ethical issues presented by media and technology, and how moral action is influenced by cognitive, emotional, and ethical belief systems. Issues of autonomy, transparency, harm, privacy, manipulation, justice, democracy, equality, and care are discussed. We analyze the consistency between personal and professional ethics, the importance of moral character and agency, and the translation of moral thought to ethical action, and address the development of professional and personal ethical codes of conduct and research for communication professionals in the areas of new media and technology.#


$CRP | City & Regional Planning$
&CRP 6596 | Real Estate Competitions I: ULI Hines&
#The ULI Hines Competition challenges students to collaborate across disciplines and imagine a better built environment. Groups of five students form teams to devise a development program for a real site in a North American city, providing designs, market-based financial data, and related narratives.#


$CS | Computer Science$
&CS 2850 | Networks&
#This interdisciplinary course examines network structures and how they matter in everyday life. The course examines how each of the computing, economic, sociological and natural worlds are connected and how the structure of these connections affects each of these worlds. Tools of graph theory and game theory are taught and then used to analyze networks. Topics covered include the web, the small world phenomenon, markets, neural networks, contagion, search and the evolution of networks.#


$DEA | Design & Environmental Analysis$
&DEA 1112 | Change-making: Designing Healthy and Hospitable Environments&
#Designing Human-Centered, Healthy and Hospitable Environments is a three-week course examining design innovations and some impacts on management/operations in hospitality,  communication, business, healthcare, and senior housing. During this course students will learn how design impacts organizations and every aspect of daily life. Using case studies, familiar  examples, and interactions with a variety of leaders from design, healthcare and hospitality fields, students will engage with design thinking and explore new career pathways.#


$ECON | Economics$
&ECON 1110 | Introductory Microeconomics&
#Explanation and evaluation of how the price system operates in determining what goods are produced, how goods are produced, who receives income, and how the price system is modified and influenced by private organizations and government policy.#
&ECON 1120 | Introductory Macroeconomics&
#Analysis of aggregate economic activity in relation to the level, stability, and growth of national income. Topics may include the determination and effects of unemployment, inflation, balance of payments, deficits, and economic development, and how these may be influenced by monetary, fiscal, and other policies.#
&ECON 2040 | Networks&
#This interdisciplinary course examines network structures and how they matter in everyday life. The course examines how each of the computing, economic, sociological and natural worlds are connected and how the structure of these connections affects each of these worlds. Tools of graph theory and game theory are taught and then used to analyze networks. Topics covered include the web, the small world phenomenon, markets, neural networks, contagion, search and the evolution of networks.#


$ENGL | English$
&ENGL 2795 | Narrative and Healing&
#This course focuses on narrative competence and its role in medical education and clinical practice. Narrative is fundamental to the way we imagine, live and write our lives. In medicine, skills associated with the study of literature are crucial in diagnosis and treatment. Likewise, empathetic imagination and appreciation of the socio-cultural dimensions of medical practice are essential for a successful doctor-patient relationship. Thematically, this three-week course revolves around issues related to empathy, power in the doctor-patient relationship, and the role of language in healing. Goals include enhancing narrative competence and reflection on the therapeutic value of the arts and humanities. Course materials comprise multimodal texts of various genres and time periods. Assignments range from online discussion participation to analytical and reflective writing.#
&ENGL 2797 | Introduction to World Poetry&
#The course will explore world poetry in English translation and other languages (depending on the students' native languages). Through close analysis of individual poems and poets, students will increase their historical and cultural competence, practice standard academic writing and critical/analytical skills, and learn vocal performance techniques used by singers and public speakers to perform successfully before audiences. The course will additionally improve your enjoyment of poetry through greater understanding of sound patterns, aesthetics, and the formal elements of poetry such as rhyme, meter, symbolism and imagery. The course is suitable for first-years, sophomores, and advanced high school students, Returning Adult Learners, and Lifelong Learners.#


$ENTOM | Entomology$
&ENTOM 2030 | Honey Bees: Their Intriguing Biology and Interactions with Humans and More&
#Honeybees have been an object of fascination for mankind since prehistoric times. The complexity of their communal life has intrigued many observers and scientists, and they have long been prized for their honey as well as their beeswax. Honeybees, along with many wild bees are essential coworkers in agriculture because of their pollination services, and they are increasingly seen as important partners for sustainable agriculture that limits the use of pesticides. This course aims to offer an exploration of one of the most amazing life forms we know. Topics covered include chemical ecology, insect physiology, beekeeping, behavioral ecology, pollination biology, sociobiology and Conservation Biology. This course is suitable for non-life sciences students.#


$FGSS | Feminist, Gender & Sexuality Studies$
&FGSS 2501 | Playing out Difference: History and Identity in Sports Film&
#The importance of sports to American society and popular culture cannot be denied, and this seminar will study sports films' vital significance in representing the intersection of sports, history, and social identities. This seminar explores how the role of competition between individuals and teams in sports films relate to the competing discourses on race, gender, class, and sexuality in society at large. Additionally, we will examine how social issues are understood in sporting terms and concepts, such as: the hero and the underdog; urban and rural; natural talent versus hard work; and the individual versus team identity.#


$FSAD | Fiber Science & Apparel Design$
&FSAD 4021 | Textile and Apparel Production in India&
#Acquaint students with the major issues and problems in international textiles and apparel production to demonstrate how problems in development are addressed in India and Sri Lanka.. The lectures/discussions establish the global and regional contexts for sustainable agricultural development and focus on development challenges in Asia through cases in India and Sri Lanka. Students will be automatically enrolled in the field trip component. The field trip consists of a two to three week field study trip designed to provide students with an opportunity to observe the apparel and textile industry abroad to promote interdisciplinary exchange among faculty, staff, students and their international counterparts.#
&FSAD 6021 | Textile and Apparel Production in India II&
#This course is designed to provide students with an opportunity to observe the apparel and textile industry in India and to promote interdisciplinary exchange among faculty, staff, students and their Indian counterparts. A three week field study trip in January is followed by discussions, written projects, and oral presentations dealing with issues in the apparel and textile industry in the context of social and economic conditions of India.#


$GDEV | Global Development$
&GDEV 3501 | Development in Action: Winter Faculty-Led Study Trips&
#Each section of this course is a different faculty-led winter study trip that follows a 0.5 credit Fall course where students gain familiarity with a particular global development challenge (i.e., hunger & sustainable food production, inequality across the life course, environmental challenges & solutions, etc.) through readings, lectures, and in-class discussions. Then, in this winter session course, students travel to meet with actors on the ground who are navigating and developing solutions to these challenges.#
&GDEV 5501 | Development in Action: Winter Faculty-Led Study Trips&
#Each section of this course is a different faculty-led winter study trip that follows a 0.5 credit Fall course where students gain familiarity with a particular global development challenge (i.e., hunger & sustainable food production, inequality across the life course, environmental challenges & solutions, etc.) through readings, lectures, and in-class discussions. Then, in this winter session course, students travel to meet with actors on the ground who are navigating and developing solutions to these challenges.#


$GOVT | Government$
&GOVT 3141 | Prisons&
#The United States stands alone among Western, industrialized countries with its persistent, high rates of incarceration, long sentences, and continued use of the death penalty. This "American exceptionalism" -- the turn to mass incarceration -- has been fostered by the use of sharply-delineated categories that define vast numbers of people as outlaws and others as law-abiding. These categories that are based on ideas of personal responsibility and assumptions about race are modified somewhat by a liberal commitment to human rights.   Our purpose in this course is to understand how such ideas have taken root and to locate the consequences of these ideas for policy and practice.#
&GOVT 3394 | Politics and History of Southern Africa&
#This course takes place in Lusaka, Zambia, and focuses on introducing students to the history and politics of Zambia and more broadly southern Africa. After having introduced students to some basic political and economic analysis of contemporary Africa, it will examine the history of European settlement in southern Africa, the liberation wars and the independence process, Apartheid in South Africa, and post-Apartheid democracy in South Africa.#
&GOVT 3614 | Politics of Sustainable Development in Latin America II&
#In recent decades the Andean region of Latin America has become a focal point of international debate over alternative models of economic development and their environmental consequences. Windfall revenues from oil, gas, and mineral extraction have stimulated economic growth in the region, but they have also sparked opposition from environmental organizations and indigenous communities concerned about the effects on land and water resources and community livelihoods. This engaged learning course explores the political ecology of development in Ecuador, focusing on the tensions between extractive models of development and more environmentally-sustainable alternatives. The course will count for four credit hours spread across three modules in the fall, January, and spring semesters. The fall module provides an introduction to Ecuador's political and economic development, its cultural diversity, theories of sustainable development, and community-based engaged learning. This will be followed by an intensive, two-week field trip to Ecuador in January to work on group projects with community partners, and a wrap-up module in the spring semester to complete final group projects. While in Ecuador in January, students will meet with local scholars, government officials, and representatives from civic and community organizations engaged in efforts to promote environmentally-sustainable forms of economic development, and they will divide into small groups to work on projects with community partners.  Initiatives related to sustainable agro-forestry, food security, the protection of biodiversity, land and water conservation, and community-based participatory planning will be highlighted in group meetings and engaged learning projects.#
&GOVT 3686 | What Makes Us Human? An Existential Journey Amidst Crises&
#"What's true of all the evils in the world is true of plague as well. It helps men to rise above themselves," wrote Albert Camus in The Plague. It is not just the current pandemic: climate change, warlike politics, polarization, tribalism, raging anxieties, AI advancement – these are just some of the many existential troubles and challenges we all, and our very "human nature," now face. This is our time to realize our humanity: find out what sets us apart as humans, and live up to it.
This course invites you to an existential odyssey into the human condition and politics. Are we truly different from animals and machines? What does it mean to "be yourself"? What's the difference between freedom and liberty? Should we pursue happiness? Why do we yield to fear and anxiety? Is the search for meaning meaningless? Do we live in a post-truth era? What are the roles of morality in our society and politics? Why is God dead, but religion alive? Can we defeat alienation? Is love all we need? How much can, and should, we hope for? In this course, utilizing the award-winning edX HOPE (Human Odyssey to Political Existentialism; see https://tinyurl.com/hope44), we will address these questions, and then some more. We shall examine a dozen themes, entwining each with critical reflections, both personal and political, amidst the current crisis: Human/nature, identity & authenticity, freedom, reflection, happiness, death & dread, meaning, morality, truth & trust, God & religion, alienation & love, and finally – hope.#
&GOVT 3887 | International Human Rights in Theory and Practice&
#This course will introduce students to the law, theory, and practice of international human rights. Students will think critically about the effectiveness of the international human rights system by examining its successes, failures, and dilemmas in preventing and responding to human rights abuse. Topics covered will include the origins and foundations of international human rights; the role of international, regional, and domestic institutions and actors in enforcing human rights; critiques of the human rights movement; and the relationship of the United States to the international system for the protection of human rights. The course will also explore issues such as the death penalty, women's human rights, migration, climate change, global poverty, racism and xenophobia, and responses to mass atrocities. During in-class activities, students will have the opportunity to step into the shoes of a human rights advocate and work with their classmates to address simulated human rights problems.#


$HD | Human Development$
&HD 2600 | Introduction to Personality&
#What is "personality"? How is it scientifically studied and measured? To what extent, do biological, social, and cultural factors shape personality? Is personality an expression of our genetic make up and biology, the culmination of social influences, the interplay of both, or the result of random events? In this course, we will review the major theoretical paradigms of personality psychology, discuss contemporary research, theory, and methodology, and learn about key historical debates in the study of "personality".#


$HIST | History$
&HIST 2298 | Public History Lab Trip: The History of People Setting Themselves Free From Slavery in the US&
#In this course, students will take their knowledge (from HIST 2297) about the history of slavery and emancipation, as well as skills in research, development, and the production of building an exhibit, and travel to Edgard, Louisiana during winter session. There we will work on-site for a week with community partners, museum staff, and our colleagues in the UNO course at the Whitney Plantation Museum. The course will run parallel with a sibling course being taught in the University of New Orleans' MA program in Public History.#
&HIST 3662 | Women, War, and Peace in Europe, 1900-1950&
#This course will examine the often-neglected role of women in the history of war and peace. We will use women's writings—diaries, memoirs, letters, speeches, fictional accounts, and the like—to analyze World War I, World War II, and the Spanish Civil War from a female perspective. Through a thorough reading of British feminist Vera Brittain's Testament of Youth, Holocaust victim Etty Hillesum's An Interrupted Life and Letters from Westerbork, and Italian Resistance activist Ada Gobetti's Partisan Diary, we will explore the question of women's autobiographical writing and its political, social, and cultural implications. We will also study other topics, such as women's suffrage, motherhood and family, resistance to fascism, and the Holocaust.#


$ILRIC | International & Comparative Labor$
&ILRIC 3345 | Contemporary Cambodia: Labor, Development and Society&
#This winter session course is designed to provide students with an introduction to the role of labor and industrial relations in Cambodian development. Taught over the winter break (Jan 3-Jan 17), this is a three-credit course taught in Cambodia, through the School of Continuing Education and Summer sessions. The course involves a mix of lectures and field visits. Classes will be conducted for 3 hours a day, followed by relevant field visits. Each class will be supplemented by guest lectures from Cambodian locals.#


$ILRLR | Labor Relations, Law and History$
&ILRLR 2300 | Argumentation and Debate&
#Students learn the principles of argumentation and debate, including the difference between opinions and arguments, selecting persuasive reasons in support of claims, stakeholder analysis, discerning logical fallacies, framing, comparing impact claims (including ethical appeals), and effective research skills. Students will partner up with their classmates for in-class debates on timely topics. Students will also complete research-based advocacies as written assignments for the course. This course also includes one test, in an open-book (i.e. you can use your notes and consult the textbook) format.    Students learn the principles of argumentation and debate. Topics emphasize Internet database research, synthesis of collected data, policy analysis of evidentiary quality, refutation of counter claims, identification of logical fallacies, risk evaluation, framing of issues, and coherent storytelling. Prepares students to work with a great range of opinion and evidence. Emphasizes different viewpoints, including those of different cultures. Assumptions are interrogated.#


$ILRST | Social Statistics$
&ILRST 2100 | Introductory Statistics&
#Statistics is about understanding the world through data. We are surrounded by data, so there is a lot to understand. Covers data exploration and display, data gathering methods, probability, and statistical inference methods through contingency tables and linear regression. The emphasis is on thinking scientifically, understanding what is commonly done with data (and doing some of it for yourself), and laying a foundation for further study. Students learn to use statistical software and simulation tools to discover fundamental results. They use computers regularly; the test includes both multimedia materials and a software package. This course does not focus on data from any particular discipline, but will use real-world examples from a wide variety of disciplines and current events.#
&ILRST 5100 | Statistical Methods for the Social Sciences I&
#A first course in statistics for graduate students in the social sciences. Descriptive statistics, probability and sampling distributions, estimation, hypothesis testing, simple linear regression, and correlation. Students are instructed on the use of a statistics computer package at the beginning of the term and use it for weekly assignments.#


$INFO | Information Science$
&INFO 2040 | Networks&
#This interdisciplinary course examines network structures and how they matter in everyday life. The course examines how each of the computing, economic, sociological and natural worlds are connected and how the structure of these connections affects each of these worlds. Tools of graph theory and game theory are taught and then used to analyze networks. Topics covered include the web, the small world phenomenon, markets, neural networks, contagion, search and the evolution of networks.#
&INFO 4301 | Ethics in New Media, Technology, and Communication&
#This course examines moral and ethical issues in communication, new media, and technology. Using theories and research in moral philosophy and psychology, we examine how people perceive and reason about ethical issues presented by media and technology, and how moral action is influenced by cognitive, emotional, and ethical belief systems. Issues of autonomy, transparency, harm, privacy, manipulation, justice, democracy, equality, and care are discussed. We analyze the consistency between personal and professional ethics, the importance of moral character and agency, and the translation of moral thought to ethical action, and address the development of professional and personal ethical codes of conduct and research for communication professionals in the areas of new media and technology.#
&INFO 4900 | Independent Reading and Research&
#Independent reading and research for undergraduates.#
&INFO 5301 | Ethics in New Media, Technology, and Communication&
#This course examines moral and ethical issues in communication, new media, and technology. Using theories and research in moral philosophy and psychology, we examine how people perceive and reason about ethical issues presented by media and technology, and how moral action is influenced by cognitive, emotional, and ethical belief systems. Issues of autonomy, transparency, harm, privacy, manipulation, justice, democracy, equality, and care are discussed. We analyze the consistency between personal and professional ethics, the importance of moral character and agency, and the translation of moral thought to ethical action, and address the development of professional and personal ethical codes of conduct and research for communication professionals in the areas of new media and technology.#


$LATA | Latin American Studies$
&LATA 3614 | Politics of Sustainable Development in Latin America II&
#In recent decades the Andean region of Latin America has become a focal point of international debate over alternative models of economic development and their environmental consequences. Windfall revenues from oil, gas, and mineral extraction have stimulated economic growth in the region, but they have also sparked opposition from environmental organizations and indigenous communities concerned about the effects on land and water resources and community livelihoods. This engaged learning course explores the political ecology of development in Ecuador, focusing on the tensions between extractive models of development and more environmentally-sustainable alternatives. The course will count for four credit hours spread across three modules in the fall, January, and spring semesters. The fall module provides an introduction to Ecuador's political and economic development, its cultural diversity, theories of sustainable development, and community-based engaged learning. This will be followed by an intensive, two-week field trip to Ecuador in January to work on group projects with community partners, and a wrap-up module in the spring semester to complete final group projects. While in Ecuador in January, students will meet with local scholars, government officials, and representatives from civic and community organizations engaged in efforts to promote environmentally-sustainable forms of economic development, and they will divide into small groups to work on projects with community partners.  Initiatives related to sustainable agro-forestry, food security, the protection of biodiversity, land and water conservation, and community-based participatory planning will be highlighted in group meetings and engaged learning projects.#


$LAW | Law$
&LAW 3887 | International Human Rights in Theory and Practice&
#This course will introduce students to the law, theory, and practice of international human rights. Students will think critically about the effectiveness of the international human rights system by examining its successes, failures, and dilemmas in preventing and responding to human rights abuse. Topics covered will include the origins and foundations of international human rights; the role of international, regional, and domestic institutions and actors in enforcing human rights; critiques of the human rights movement; and the relationship of the United States to the international system for the protection of human rights. The course will also explore issues such as the death penalty, women's human rights, migration, climate change, global poverty, racism and xenophobia, and responses to mass atrocities. During in-class activities, students will have the opportunity to step into the shoes of a human rights advocate and work with their classmates to address simulated human rights problems.#


$MUSIC | Music$
&MUSIC 2370 | Planet Rap: Where Hip Hop Came From and Where It's Going&
#Since hip hop first emerged in the South Bronx nearly half a century ago, it has grown into a global movement. Youth around the world not only consume hip hop; they also create their own, adapting hip hop music, texts, dance, and visual culture to local realities. This course traces the ongoing connections between hip hop's roots in the cultural expression of marginalized African American and Latinx youth in the postindustrial urban United States, its contemporary relationship to US popular culture, and its routes around the globe, where diverse practitioners mobilize its beats, rhymes, and visual culture to address experiences of oppression and displacement, celebrate life, and agitate for social justice.#


$NBA | Graduate Management Business Admin$
&NBA 5920 | Experience in International Management&
#Combines classroom sessions and international experience with an increased awareness of business environments outside the United States. On trips, students visit local businesses, subsidiaries of foreign multinationals, government officials, local business school students, and others. Students in some treks do pro bono consulting projects for small and medium size companies.#
&NBA 5925 | Johnson Experiential Leadership Expedition&
#The Johnson Leadership Expedition is a customized leadership expedition course where students test and enhance their leadership skills in an unpredictable, challenging, and dynamic environment. This immersive leadership experience stretches and grows students' understanding of themselves as leaders as they face ambiguity and adversity, make decisions with incomplete information, and get real-time feedback on their leadership efforts. The experiential component of the expedition is combined with pre- and post-class sessions, individualized coaching sessions, and written deliverables. Students will be introduced to key leadership concepts and findings related to active leadership, followership, and judgment and decision-making under uncertainty and stress. Those learnings are then applied and reflected upon during and after the expedition.#
&NBA 5991 | Global Business Strategy&
#No description available.#
&NBA 6955 | Industrial Organization, Consulting and Business Strategy&
#This course aims to enable students to apply IO models to study real-world problems. We will learn (i.) the fundamentals of game theory through numerous examples; (ii.) the applications of game theory models in various IO topics; pricing and firm competition, product differentiation, merger analysis (antitrust), platform and entry analysis. (iii.) market analysis and case studies for different industries/marketplaces (oil, smartphone, music streaming, social media apps, food delivery platforms, ride-sharing platforms, and EV industry). (iv.) empirical methods use to research and in the consulting industry (regression analysis, structural models, and causal inferences). This course is especially helpful for students interested in consulting or related industry jobs.#


$NTRES | Natural Resources$
&NTRES 3152 | Field Methods in Conservation Bioacoustics: Hawai'i Experience&
#This follow-up to the Conservation Bioacoustics Field Course will focus on the analysis, refinement, and presentation of data from the winter field experience. Students will work with marine and terrestrial data collected in Hawai'i to develop and refine statistical analysis, create graphics and visualizations, and communicate their results through scientific writing and media for general audiences.#
&NTRES 4301 | Environmental Policy Processes II&
#This on-campus and off-campus course sequence focuses on how environmental policy issues move through the federal policy-making process. Students select an environmental policy topic during the fall semester session (NTRES 4300) for analysis during the second part of the course (NTRES 4301). The second session continues course focus on contemporary environmental problems, how they are defined, aggregating interests, agenda-setting, formulating alternative solutions, implementation and evaluation, and roles of lobbyists, advocates, the legislative, executive, judicial branches of government, and other actors. DC activities also include organized meetings with policy makers, advocates and experts as guest panelists. The spring semester session (NTRES 4302) requires presenting an oral policy briefing and writing both short and long policy briefs based on the DC interviews and additional research.#
&NTRES 6152 | Field Methods in Conservation Bioacoustics: Hawai'i Experience&
#This field methods course will consist of a 2-week experience in Hawaii that provides hands-on experience with conservation bioacoustics projects across marine and terrestrial ecosystems on the Big Island of Hawai'i. Activities will include the design and execution of field projects, presentations and meetings with local researchers and conservation practitioners, group discussions on how to maximize conservation outputs from the projects, and analysis of acoustic data. Students will learn acoustic data collection techniques through participating in ongoing monitoring projects with researchers from the Hawai'i Marine Mammal Consortium and the University of Hawai'i. Throughout the course, teams of students will execute their conservation bioacoustic projects, including question development spanning hypothesis testing, study design, data collection, analysis, and writing. At the close of the course, students will present their findings in a symposium and write up their project results as a chapter in our annual field course book.#


$PE | Physical Education & Athletics$
&PE 1272 | Walking Tours&
#A series of walking tours around the Cornell Campus and beyond. Class will meet regardless of weather, so please come prepared.#


$PLBIO | Plant Biology$
&PLBIO 2100 | Medical Ethnobotany&
#Plants have always played a key role in the history of life on Earth and have served as medicinal agents in all societies since prehistoric times. Medical Ethnobotany is the study of medicinal plants used by a group of people. Medicinal plants are either critical constituents of many modem drugs or provide templates for synthetic analogous molecules. In this course we will introduce and be acquainted with past and current plant-based natural remedies used across the globe, exploring their efficacy and mode of actions. We will analyze and compare how plants are employed in the different continents to heal (or alleviate) a plethora of pathological conditions, and explore how they affect our bodies (which organic system is affected, i.e., gastro-intestinal, central nervous or respiratory system). The course is designed for students with an interest in the natural world and in traditional medicine.#
&PLBIO 2301 | Field Lab in Global Plant Biodiversity and Vegetation&
#An intensive three-week field course in Latin America over winter break (most years taken in Patagonia) studying local vegetation and flora and the relationship of vegetation to climate, geography and geology. In the field, students will receive lectures on the vegetation, learn to identify dominant plants, and undertake a directed set of vegetation transects that record species diversity and ecological parameters.#
&PLBIO 2400 | Green World, Blue Planet&
#Focuses on helping individuals understand how scientific information relates to the issues they face as citizens, in management decision making, and in public policy. To what extent should genetic engineering of crop plants be permitted? Should we place limits on fossil fuel consumption as a means of limiting global warming and global climate change? Must human endeavors be restricted in certain areas to maintain diversity? The format of this course is interactive, with lectures and discussions about how we as a society deal with controversial issues.#


$PMA | Performing and Media Arts$
&PMA 2404 | Story Ideation, Creation, and Development&
#This course centers on story creation, development and presentation. Students learn what makes a great story for the screen and how to take it from concept to pitch. Over the course of the semester through writing assignments and discussion, students practice creating, developing, analyzing, and pitching original stories for film and television.#
&PMA 2501 | Playing out Difference: History and Identity in Sports Film&
#The importance of sports to American society and popular culture cannot be denied, and this seminar will study sports films' vital significance in representing the intersection of sports, history, and social identities. This seminar explores how the role of competition between individuals and teams in sports films relate to the competing discourses on race, gender, class, and sexuality in society at large. Additionally, we will examine how social issues are understood in sporting terms and concepts, such as: the hero and the underdog; urban and rural; natural talent versus hard work; and the individual versus team identity.#


$PSYCH | Psychology$
&PSYCH 2750 | Introduction to Personality&
#What is "personality"? How is it scientifically studied and measured? To what extent, do biological, social, and cultural factors shape personality? Is personality an expression of our genetic make up and biology, the culmination of social influences, the interplay of both, or the result of random events? In this course, we will review the major theoretical paradigms of personality psychology, discuss contemporary research, theory, and methodology, and learn about key historical debates in the study of "personality".#


$REAL | Real Estate$
&REAL 6596 | Real Estate Competitions I: ULI Hines&
#The ULI Hines Competition challenges students to collaborate across disciplines and imagine a better built environment. Groups of five students form teams to devise a development program for a real site in a North American city, providing designs, market-based financial data, and related narratives.#


$SOC | Sociology$
&SOC 2090 | Networks&
#This interdisciplinary course examines network structures and how they matter in everyday life. The course examines how each of the computing, economic, sociological and natural worlds are connected and how the structure of these connections affects each of these worlds. Tools of graph theory and game theory are taught and then used to analyze networks. Topics covered include the web, the small world phenomenon, markets, neural networks, contagion, search and the evolution of networks.#


$STSCI | Statistical Science$
&STSCI 2100 | Introductory Statistics&
#Statistics is about understanding the world through data. We are surrounded by data, so there is a lot to understand. Covers data exploration and display, data gathering methods, probability, and statistical inference methods through contingency tables and linear regression. The emphasis is on thinking scientifically, understanding what is commonly done with data (and doing some of it for yourself), and laying a foundation for further study. Students learn to use statistical software and simulation tools to discover fundamental results. They use computers regularly; the test includes both multimedia materials and a software package. This course does not focus on data from any particular discipline, but will use real-world examples from a wide variety of disciplines and current events.#


$TECHIE | Digital Technology Interdisciplinary Education$
&TECHIE 5315 | Emerging Technologies and Markets&
#Highly current information about new and upcoming technology-powered trends and markets to offer the most up-to-date industry knowledge. These emerging technologies may lead to status quo disruption, and we will explore the latest technological advances affecting traditional business models. Industry pioneers will be guest speakers. Experts will provide an insider's view on the rapidly developing capabilities. The insight will enable students to enter into/continue in the workforce with current marketplace knowledge providing strategic advantage to their organizations, careers, and entrepreneurial efforts. Review of new technologies plus converging to create synergistic growth and ways exploiting these symbiotic effects. Approximately ten new technology areas/industries will be covered in this four-consecutive-night intensive pre-semester seminar course.#


$VISST | Visual Studies$
&VISST 2502 | Playing out Difference: History and Identity in Sports Film&
#The importance of sports to American society and popular culture cannot be denied, and this seminar will study sports films' vital significance in representing the intersection of sports, history, and social identities. This seminar explores how the role of competition between individuals and teams in sports films relate to the competing discourses on race, gender, class, and sexuality in society at large. Additionally, we will examine how social issues are understood in sporting terms and concepts, such as: the hero and the underdog; urban and rural; natural talent versus hard work; and the individual versus team identity.#


$VTMED | Veterinary Medicine Professional Curriculum$
&VTMED 5600 | Ambulatory and Production Medicine&
#Clinical service rotation in which students accompany ambulatory clinicians on farm and stable calls and learn the skills and procedures necessary for operation of a modern veterinary practice offering primary care to large animal clients. Routine herd health visits are conducted for cattle, horses, sheep, goats, and swine. Reproductive evaluations (including pregnancy and fertility examinations), nutritional evaluation, and disease prevention are stressed. Herd health programs also include vaccinations, parasite control, mastitis prevention, and routine procedures. With appropriate herds, analysis of computerized performance data is conducted and discussed with the owner. In addition to assisting with routine scheduled work, students participate in diagnosis and medical or surgical treatment of ill or injured animals. This includes rotating assignments for night and weekend duty.#
&VTMED 5601 | Small Animal Community Practice&
#Our community practice, housed in a stand-alone facility as of June 2018, offers full services for our patients of all life stages including preventive medicine, radiology, dentistry, and surgery. Our primary care practice is designed to provide our clinical year students with experience in appointments, procedures, surgery, client communications, and cloud-based electronic medical records to prepare them as entry level veterinarians upon graduation from the CUCVM. The goals and design of the Small Animal Community Practice are to model a non-academic general practice setting where students act as primary case clinicians collecting histories, performing physical exams, assessing their patients, and creating diagnostic and therapeutic plans individualized to a given patient and client. Student clinicians are supervised by rotation faculty and supported by licensed veterinary technicians.#
&VTMED 5602 | Small Animal Medicine&
#Structured to provide supervised clinical experience in the practice of small animal medicine.  The course is conducted in the Companion Animal Hospital of the Cornell University Hospital for Animals.  Students interact directly with clients presenting their pets for primary or referral medical care.  Under the supervision of the clinical faculty and staff, the students are expected to formulate and carry out plans for the diagnostic evaluation and medical management of these patients.#
&VTMED 5603 | Small Animal Soft Tissue Surgery Service&
#Clinical service rotation that exposes the student to the practice of soft tissue surgery within the companion animal hospital. Students participate in morning and evening patient rounds, appointments, clinical decision making (diagnostics, medical and surgical interventions), and daily patient care under the direction of the faculty and house officers of the surgery service. Students are afforded the opportunity to assist and observe in the operating room. Patient care, client communication, a variety of treatment options to fit different real-world scenarios and an introduction to abdominal surgery are emphasized.#
&VTMED 5604 | Large Animal Medicine Service&
#Students assigned to this service participate with the faculty, technicians, and residents of the Large Animal Medicine service in the diagnosis and care of patients.  The goal of this course is for students to acquire knowledge and skills in history taking, physical examination, selection and completion of appropriate ancillary tests, diagnosis, treatment plan, and patient care.  Daily rounds and discussions are used to monitor patient progress and further educate students. If time allows, sit-down rounds to discuss medical disorders are provided.#
&VTMED 5605 | Large Animal Surgery&
#Clinical rotation structured to provide supervised clinical experience in the practice of large animal surgery. Under the direction of faculty and house staff, students participate in the diagnosis, surgical treatment, and care of patients presented to the Equine and Farm Animal Hospital. Training through patient care is supplemented by formal rounds and didactic instruction.#
&VTMED 5606 | Anesthesiology Service&
#The course is designed to provide clinical experience in the use of anesthetics in small companion animals, horses, and farm animals. Students participate in selecting suitable anesthetic techniques for patients in the Cornell University Hospital for Animals and then implement those techniques under the supervision of faculty and residents. The goal is for students to learn the skills and the thought processes necessary to perform safe anesthesia in a modern veterinary practice and to provide perioperative analgesia. Students planning to enter equine, production, or mixed animal practice who elect to take a second anesthesia rotation can choose to spend this rotation exclusively in the Equine and Nemo Farm Animal Hospitals.#
&VTMED 5607 | Dermatology Service&
#During this clinical rotation, students participate in the diagnosis and management of skin disorders in small and large animals. Patients are examined by appointment and through consultation with other hospital services. Mandatory rounds are conducted either in-person or through recordings as determined by the rotation's service chief. Quizzes may be given at the discretion of the service chief to assess dermatology knowledge and progress.#
&VTMED 5608 | Ophthalmology Service&
#A large inpatient and outpatient referral case load plus numerous inpatient consultations for other hospital services allow students to become confident acquiring the beginning skills needed for diagnostic ophthalmology. Students perform many routine ophthalmic diagnostic tests (Schirmer tear testing, fluorescein staining, tonometry) and learn and gain confidence using indirect ophthalmoscopes, slit lamps, and tonometers.  Students are introduced to other ocular diagnostic tests, including culture, cytology, ultrasound, as well as more advanced diagnostic modalities according to the caseload. The rotation provides students an opportunity to observe common and uncommon therapeutic and surgical procedures. Many of the ophthalmology cases are complex referral cases but adequate routine case material is presented to prepare students for the common eye problems seen in veterinary practice.  A competent ocular examination is the goal of this rotation.#
&VTMED 5609 | Pathology Service&
#The pathology rotation strives to integrate gross pathology with other diagnostic modalities.  Students will work in groups of four to six for the two week rotation performing necropsies on mammals, birds, exotic species and laboratory animals under the guidance of pathology faculty and residents.  Students will prepare written reports of the necropsies performed and discuss the findings at daily morning rounds. Students will also be instructed by faculty of the Animal Health Diagnostic Center with expertise in ancillary diagnostic techniques.  Students will be expected to learn to use diagnostic testing regimens as integral parts of comprehensive diagnostic and therapeutic plans.  Instruction will consist primarily of the discussion of clinical cases with emphasis on laboratory diagnostics.  Students will be expected to lead and participate in these discussions and will be evaluated on their ability to do so.#
&VTMED 5610 | Radiology Service&
#A two-week clinical experience in the imaging section of the Cornell University Hospital for Animals.  Students use radiographic, ultrasonographic, CT, MRI, and nuclear medicine imaging techniques to evaluate animal patients under treatment in the Cornell University Hospital for Animals.  Students obtain and interpret radiographic and ultrasonographic studies with guidance from radiology faculty, residents and technical staff.  On-line teaching materials  are used to familiarize students with radiographic and  cross-sectional imaging examples of common diseases of large and small animal species.  Small-group discussions are included to present and discuss the teaching files and current cases, in addition to the safe use of x-ray producing equipment.#
&VTMED 5611 | Small Animal Clinical Emergency and Critical Care Medicine&
#Management of both emergent and critical cases represents a significant component of the practice of veterinary medicine. The focus of this clinical rotation will be the development of a knowledge base and a comprehensive set of skills necessary for a veterinarian to perform adequately in these areas, within a structured format. These skills will include the appropriate evaluation (triage) and stabilization of emergency patients, the management of post-operative and other critical patients, and sensitive and effective client communication. Participants access relevant information from various sources related to emergency and critical care medicine and understand and apply these principles to clinical cases. Students will participate in the management of incoming emergency cases as well as having primary patient care responsibilities in both intensive care and intermediate care units. Students will work closely with interns, residents, technicians, and faculty on the Emergency & Critical Care Service to become familiar with technical and nursing procedures as well as to develop clinical skills and a systematic approach to clinical cases.#
&VTMED 5613 | Small Animal Surgery Orthopedic Surgery Service&
#Clinical service rotation that exposes the student to the practice of orthopedic surgery and medicine under hospital conditions. Students participate in rounds; diagnostic techniques; planning of therapy; and daily care of dogs and cats under the direction of an intern, surgical residents in training, and faculty. Students assist experienced surgeons in the operating room. Client communications and the basics of orthopedics in general practice are emphasized. Students are expected to be able to successfully perform an orthopedic examination and localize the lameness by the end of the rotation.#
&VTMED 6528 | Equine and Food Animal Surgical and Anesthetic Techniques&
#This first part of this course consists of five laboratories performing surgical procedures on ponies and cadaver specimens as well as a few relevant lectures. The second part consists of five laboratories performing surgical procedures on calves, cadaver specimens, and adult cattle. The intent of this course is not to make the students proficient in these procedures but to familiarize them with some specialized surgical techniques and to make them more enlightened referring practitioners. The course, therefore, is intended for students anticipating large animal practice after graduation.#
&VTMED 6541 | Surgical Pathology&
#Provides hands-on experience in the Surgical Pathology Service of the Department of Biomedical Sciences. Working with the attending pathologist, students examine tissue specimens histologically, propose diagnoses, and discuss their interpretations. Students may enroll in this course only through the Office of Student Records within the official add/drop period. All requests to enroll must be accompanied by the Supplemental Enrollment Form indicating Dr. McDonough's approval of the enrollment and the amount of credit to be awarded. Second-year students should not enroll for any term other than summer unless they have actually reserved a January or spring-break slot through Dr. McDonough.#
&VTMED 6601 | Cardiology Service&
#Provides students with the opportunity to put into practice what they have learned in the foundation years.  The management of the most common cardiac diseases are emphasized including congestive heart failure, arrhythmias, and secondary cardiac diseases.  All species are examined, large and small, although the majority are small animals.  Diagnostics including cardiovascular physical examination, electrocardiography, radiography, and echocardiography are taught.  The rotation includes clinical work, didactic teaching, and self-initiated digging for information.#
&VTMED 6602 | Laboratory Animal Medicine&
#Laboratory animal medicine is a diverse field in which veterinarians directly impact the well-being of animals used in research, teaching and testing. Laboratory animal veterinarians assist researchers in achieving their goals, while encouraging replacement, reduction, and refinement of animal use. Treatment of animals and preparation of preventive medicine programs requires the laboratory animal veterinarian to have knowledge of the biology and comparative medicine of a wide variety of species. It is also essential for laboratory animal veterinarians to have knowledge of research methodologies, and animal models of disease as well as a good understanding of state and federal regulations, and guidelines governing the use of animals. In addition, occupational health and safety, and animal facility design are important parts of an institutional animal care program, to which laboratory animal veterinarians have input. The diversity of species, and the novel circumstances that arise regularly in this field make laboratory animal medicine an exciting and unique discipline of veterinary medicine. This rotation is an introduction to the specialty of laboratory animal medicine.  Students are exposed to all aspects of a laboratory animal veterinarian's role. Activities include but are not limited to: accompanying laboratory animal veterinarians on clinical rounds of Cornell University's research animal facilities; participating in diagnostic and preventive medicine plans; attending review sessions on the biology, medicine, pathology, husbandry of traditional and non-traditional lab animal species; incorporating information on current legislation regulating the care and use of research animals; and exposure to various research activities on the Cornell University Campus.#
&VTMED 6603 | Clinical Wildlife, Exotic, and Zoo-Animal Medicine&
#Introduces students to primary and emergency care of non-traditional pet species, zoo animals and native wildlife. Students will be directly supervised by the attending clinician and will take part in the examination, treatment, and diagnosis of patients on the exotics and wildlife services. Due to the unique characteristics of the rotation, you may choose to spend two weeks with the Exotic Pets Section, or one week with the Wildlife Section and one with the Exotic Pet Section. Students who wish to have a Zoological Medicine experience as part of this course can self-identify and self-organize a 2-week domestic zoo experience. For further details, please review the information on the orientation document on canvas.#
&VTMED 6605 | Special Opportunities in Clinical Veterinary Medicine&
#Provides opportunities for students who have completed the prerequisites to explore professional areas of clinical interest that are either not available or expand upon the veterinary curriculum. Please consult the VTMED 6605 syllabus for additional information.#
&VTMED 6608 | Clinical Oncology&
#Management and prevention of cancer in companion animals represents a significant component of the practice of veterinary medicine.  The focus of this clinical rotation is the development of a comprehensive set of skills necessary for a veterinarian to become an advocate for the client/patient with cancer.  These skills include appropriate initial evaluation of animals with cancer; sensitive and effective client and referring veterinarian communication; ability to access relevant information from numerous sources related to cancer management;and ability to  understand and apply principles of surgical, medical and radiation oncology as well as techniques specifically related to minimize pain and treatment-related side effects in cancer patients.#
&VTMED 6615 | Special Topics in Ambulatory and Production-Animal Medicine&
#Provides specialized opportunity in Production Medicine.  Consists of participation in an experience designed to improve knowledge and skills regarding producation systems. Examples of focus areas include livestock production medicine, poultry and fish farming, milk quality assessment, small ruminant medicine, herd management experience, and specialized diagnostic testing. This course is availble in 2 week increments after application to the course leader at least one month in advance of the rotation. Presentation of the completed expereince to a student club or in Ambulatory rounds is required.#
&VTMED 6616 | Small Animal Dentistry and Oral Surgery&
#This rotation is designed to introduce students to clinical small animal dentistry and oral surgery.  By the end of the rotation, students are expected to be capable of:  performing a thorough oral examination, obtaining and interpreting intraoral radiographs, discussing appropriate therapeutic options, performing basic periodontal procedures and simple and surgical extractions, and administering pertinent regional nerve blocks.#
&VTMED 6618 | Clinical Neurology&
#The Neurology/Neurosurgery (NNS) clinical rotation at Cornell University's College of Veterinary Medicine is a 2 week time period in which the student is directly involved in the diagnosis, management and treatment of animals with a diverse array of neurologic disorders. Gait evaluation and the neurological examination are skills that can be applied to any species and these are emphasized over the rotation. During the rotation students will have multiple opportunities to practice and get feedback on their neurological examinations as we are often busy. This allows students time and practice so that they can apply what they have learned to whichever species they intend to work with following graduation. We have previously discussed other species with neurological conditions and examinations when students have made their interests known. Although clinics is primarily devoted to dogs and cats, we occasionally consult with other services such as large animal medicine and surgery and exotics. The student is expected to assist in all aspects of the rotation, including case rounds, patient receiving, medical and surgical treatments, client communication, and record-keeping. In addition to learning through clinical exposure, the student will be taught principles of clinical neurology during "sit-down" topic rounds. The primary goal of the rotation for the student is for the student to become comfortable and confident in performing and correctly interpreting the neurologic examination in a clinical setting.  A secondary goal is the accumulation and application of practical clinical knowledge pertaining to neurologic diseases of companion animals. To do this effectively we discuss our clinical approach to cases so that students can practice their clinical decision making skills and approach to neurological patients.#
&VTMED 6620 | Introduction to Ambulatory Primary Care Medicine&
#This a clinical service rotation in which students accompany ambulatory clinicians on a farm and stable calls and learn the skills and procedures necessary for operation of a modern veterinary practice offering primary care and production medicine services to large animal clients. Routine herd health visits are conducted for cattle, horses, sheep, goats, and swine. Reproductive evaluations (including pregnancy and fertility examinations), sick and lame animal evaluation and treatment, and other health maintenance procedures make up the majority of non-emergency work. Emergencies are usually obstetric cases, injuries, and acute illness. In addition to assisting with routine scheduled work, students participate in diagnosis and medical or surgical treatment of ill or injured animals. This includes rotating assignments for night and weekend duty.#
&VTMED 6622 | Small Animal Emergency Clinical Experience&
#Management of both emergent and critical cases represents a significant component of the practice of veterinary medicine. The focus of this course will be the initial development of a knowledge base and skill set necessary for a veterinarian to perform adequately in these areas, within a structured format. These skills will include the appropriate evaluation (triage) and stabilization of emergency patients, the management of postoperative and other critical patients, and sensitive and effective client communication. Participants will work closely with 4th year students, interns, residents, technicians and faculty on the Emergency & Critical Care Service to become familiar with technical and nursing procedures as well as to develop clinical skills and a systematic approach to clinical cases.#
&VTMED 6624 | Primary Care Surgery Service&
#The Primary Care Surgery service is a two-week rotation intended to provide students an opportunity to perform physical exams (with a focus on Fear Free technique) and surgical procedures in the context of general practice. The patients they treat and are ultimately responsible for, are adoptable shelter/rescue dogs and cats. Emphasis is placed on addressing patients from a comprehensive perspective: intake to discharge. Student clinicians are accountable for all peri-operative care. By the end of the rotation, students will have had the opportunity to improve physical exam skills, surgical competence, confidence, and efficiency within the limits of accepted technique. Student clinicians are highly encouraged to experience different methods of performing key skills. There is a significant focus on formulating appropriate treatment plans, the ergonomics of tying good knots, surgical technique as a primary care surgeon, and pain/anxiety management. Close attention is placed on writing thorough medical records and on client communication skills. Student surgeons work on critical decision making and collaboration with their team. Anesthesia support is provided by licensed veterinary technicians from the Anesthesia Service to ensure continuity in the methods of induction, patient monitoring, and recovery.#
&VTMED 6626 | Introduction to Small Animal Clinical Neurology&
#A 1-2 week time period in which the student is initially observing the diagnosis, management and treatment of animals with a diverse array of neurologic disorders. Depending on the rotation some students may have the opportunity to take a more primary role in these activities towards the end of the 2-week rotations. 
Although primarily devoted to dogs and cats, we occasionally consult with other services such as large animal medicine and surgery and pocket pets/exotics. The student is expected to assist in all aspects of the rotation, including case rounds, patient receiving, medical and surgical treatments, client communication, and record-keeping. In addition to learning through clinical exposure, the student will be taught principles of clinical neurology during "sit-down" topic rounds. The primary goal of the rotation for the student is to gain experience in the clinic and by observing and practicing to become more comfortable and confident in performing and correctly interpreting the neurologic examination in a clinical setting. A secondary goal is the accumulation and application of practical clinical knowledge pertaining to neurologic disease of companion animals.#
&VTMED 6627 | Farrier Skills for Veterinarians&
#This course will provide an opportunity for veterinary students with an equine background and interest to work with Cornell University Resident Farrier learning proper hoof trimming and balancing for conformation, horse shoe selection, fabrication, modification, and attachment modalities. Causes of lameness and underperformance relating to shoeing will be covered. Practical skills will be emphasized.#
&VTMED 6628 | Clinical Sports Medicine and Rehabilitation&
#The Clinical Sports Medicine and Rehabilitation Service focusses heavily on mobility and function and sees a variety of patients including primary lameness workups, post-surgical rehabilitation, sport dog conditioning, and geriatric care.  Foundation coursework in both physiology and musculoskeletal anatomy are applied to clinical cases from movement to healing to pain control.  Lameness workups include orthopedic and neurological examinations as well as functional assessment, objective gait analysis, and pain scoring.  Various modalities including but not limited to water therapy to neuromuscular electrical stimulation (NMES), therapeutic laser, acupuncture, extracorporeal shockwave, therapeutic ultrasound, and regenerative medicine will be introduced and incorporated as indicated.  The course will foster a unique clinical thought processes as a physical therapist to identify impairments and functional deficits, allowing for the development of appropriate physiotherapy goals and exercises.#
&VTMED 6629 | Wildlife Medicine&
#This rotation will expose students to the practice of wildlife medicine in a busy hospital setting with the guidance and mentorship of faculty, zoological medicine interns and residents, and four licensed wildlife technicians. Active participation in case management will provide the student with abundant hands-on experience in basic general clinical skills applicable to any species, an understanding of common native wildlife diseases and their management, as well as involvement in advanced wildlife medicine and surgery techniques. Students of any practice/career interest are welcome, and no prior wildlife experience is necessary. The rotation will be tailored to each student's career goals and experience level. No on-call duty is required.#
&VTMED 6737 | International Experiences in Wildlife Health and Conservation&
#The goal of the course is to provide students with the opportunity to learn about various non-native species and to gain hands on experience working with these animals in a safe and supportive environment. Students will also have the opportunity to learn about local cultures and, through lectures, discussions and site visits, learn how the work that wildlife sanctuaries, refuges, and bioparks in these developing nations is helping to conserve their natural resources. Students will be graded on participation in daily clinical activities and case rounds, teamwork, organizational skills, medical records, professionalism, and punctuality. The course is currently being taught in Central America (Belize).#
&VTMED 6741 | Wellness and Sterilization Clinics Abroad&
#This course aims to provide students an opportunity to build clinical skills in settings abroad. Working with local grassroots animal welfare organizations and pet owners in small communities, we will learn how to communicate with them to take medical histories and educate them on aspects of pet health and wellness, and learn more about the human/animal bond in other countries. Students will participate in sterilization surgery procedures with supervision and instruction of veterinarians. Participants will also have opportunities to learn about local cultures and veterinary issues in the areas visited.#
&VTMED 6896 | Topics in Veterinary Medicine&
#This course provides an opportunity for faculty to pilot a new course, or to offer a new course on a temporary basis and/or after the deadline for course submission has passed.#
&VTMED 6897 | Teaching Projects in Veterinary Medicine&
#This is a variable credit course in which students contribute to the teaching of a course in the veterinary curriculum (VTMED). Student responsibilities may include providing instructional support in laboratories, preparing teaching material, giving presentations, providing feedback to students on assignments, grading, or performing other appropriate tasks. Students are assessed based on the quality of performance in their responsibilities. Students a required to submit a brief reflection summarizing what they have accomplished and learned as a result of the teaching project. Projects must be submitted via the online application process before the first day of the term.#
&VTMED 6898 | Special Projects in Veterinary Medicine&
#Students work individually with a CVM faculty member to pursue an area of particular interest that is not part of the established curriculum. Specific course objectives and course content should be relevant to career interests in veterinary medicine and should reflect the expertise of the faculty. Students are required to submit a brief reflection summarizing what they accomplished and learned as a result of the special project. Projects must be submitted via the online application process before the first day of the term.#
&VTMED 6899 | Research Projects in Veterinary Medicine&
#Students work individually in the research environment of a CVM faculty member involved in veterinary or biomedical research. Specific course objectives and course content should be relevant to career interests in veterinary medicine and should reflect the expertise of the faculty. Students are required to submit a brief reflection summarizing what they accomplished and learned as a result of the research opportunity. Projects must be submitted via the online application process before the first day of the term.#


$VTPEH | Veterinary Medicine Public and Ecosystem Health$
&VTPEH 6183 | Public Health Practice – Monitoring, Evaluation, and Quality Improvement&
#Via this seminar, students will gain an understanding of the value and process of implementing routine monitoring and evaluation and continuous quality improvement with public health interventions. This will be practiced via in-depth discussion of real-life cases, and by self-directed research, planning, and peer review, including development of a M&E/CQI plan that could be implemented for a real project. In-person Fall; On-line Winter.#
