

$AAS | Asian American Studies$
&AAS 1100 | Introduction to Asian American Studies&
#This interdisciplinary course offers an introduction to the study of Asian/Pacific Islanders in the U.S. This course will examine, through a range of disciplines (including history, literary studies,&nbsp;film/media, performance, anthropology, sociology), issues and methods that have emerged from Asian American Studies since its inception in the late 1960s, including the types of research questions and methods that the study of Asians & Pacific Islander peoples in the U.S. as well as politics and historical relations in the Asia/Pacific region have to offer. In this course, we will pay particular attention to the role of culture and its production in documenting histories, formulating critical practices, and galvanizing political efforts. Topics and themes include: war & empire; queer & feminist lives and histories; refugee, adoptees, transnational families, and other forms of kinship & belonging; anti-Asian violence; settler colonialism and postcolonial critique.#
&AAS 2043 | Asian American Oral History&
#This seminar will explore Asian American history through the methodology of oral history. Students will read Asian American historical scholarship that has relied on oral history methods, but they will also engage with theoretical and methodological work around the use of oral sources. Students will develop, research, and present oral history projects.  Themes include power and knowledge production, the role of oral history in documenting the Asian American past, and local and family histories as avenues through which to explore oral history methods.#
&AAS 2295 | Orientalism and East Asia&
#This course explores the evolution of Orientalism, focusing on how East Asia has been perceived in the West and in East Asia. By analyzing a range of cultural and literary works spanning the genres of travelogue, poetry, fiction, film, opera, photograph, painting, illustration, etc., the course critically examines the Orientalist dichotomy between the West and the non-West and analyzes the internalization of Orientalism in East Asia in constructing the marginalized other. In addition, through a combination of reading, writing, and in-class discussion, the course investigates the historical conditions surrounding the production and dissemination of Orientalist representations of East Asia and their relevance in the contemporary world.#
&AAS 3020 | Asian Americans and Popular Culture&
#This course examines both mainstream representations of and independent media made by, for, and about Asians and Asian Americans throughout U.S. cultural history. In this course, we will analyze popular cultural genres & forms such as: documentary & narrative films, musical theatre & live performance revues, television, zines & blogs, YouTube/online performances, karaoke & cover performances, stand-up comedy, and popular music. Employing theories of cultural studies, media studies, and performance studies, we will discuss the cultural, discursive, and political impact of these various popular cultural forms and representations from the turn of the 20th century to the present.#
&AAS 3885 | Race and War in History: Workers, Soldiers, Prisoners, Activists&
#Across twentieth-century history, race and war have been dynamic forces in shaping economic organization and everyday livelihoods. This course will approach labor and working-class history, through a focus on global war as well as 'wars at home.' Racial and warfare events often intersect—in the histories of presidents and activists, business leaders and industrial workers, CIA agents and police, soldiers and prisoners, American laborers abroad and non-Americans migrating stateside. In this course, we'll consider how race and war have been linked—from the rise of Jim Crow and U.S. empire in the 1890s, to the WWII 'Greatest Generation' and its diverse workplaces, to Vietnam and the civil rights movement, to the Iraq wars and immigrant workers, to debates about what has been called a 'military-industrial complex' and a 'prison-industrial complex'.#
&AAS 4567 | Speculative East Asias&
#We will examine cultural productions by East and Southeast Asians and their diasporas that imagine speculative, science fictional, magical realist, weird realist, or otherwise non-realist worlds. Paying particular attention to the legacies of militarism and empire, we will consider how imaginaries of East Asia are entangled with the U.S.-led Cold War system, the post-Cold War dominance of finance capitalism, and climate change. Tracking connections between diverse regions and peoples, we will explore how Asians and Asian diasporas dovetail in their visions of historical memory, present-day crisis, and future possibilities. These speculative worlds will prompt us to reflect on the world we live in now and the histories we have inherited.#
&AAS 4950 | Independent Study&
#Independent reading course in topics not covered in regularly scheduled courses. Students select a topic in consultation with the faculty member who has agreed to supervise the course work.#
&AAS 6100 | Graduate Proseminar in Asian American Studies&
#No description available.#
&AAS 7200 | Directed Graduate Individual Study&
#Individualized readings and research for graduate students. Topics, readings, writing requirements, and the number of course credits to be determined through consultation between the student and the faculty supervisor.#
&AAS 7300 | Directed Graduate Group Study&
#Independent study course in which a small group of students works with one member of the graduate faculty. Topics, readings, writing requirements, and the number of course credits to be determined through consultation between the students and the faculty supervisor.#


$AEM | Applied Economics & Management$
&AEM 1200 | Introduction to Business Management&
#Provides an overview of management and business. Human resource, marketing, finance, and strategy concerns are addressed with consideration paid to current issues such as technological innovation and its impact on operations, globalization, ethics, teamwork, leadership, and entrepreneurship. Opportunity to deliver an integrative group project.#
&AEM 1500 | An Introduction to the Economics of Environmental and Natural Resources&
#This course provides an introduction to the economic foundations for public decision-making regarding environmental quality and natural resources. Emphasis is placed on how basic tools of economic analysis can be used to identify sources of environmental problems and solutions to these problems. Topics to be covered include "individual hand" concepts underlying market success, market failure with particular focus on public goods and externalities, benefit-cost analysis and non-market valuation, incentive-based policies for controlling pollution, and economic aspects of renewable and non-renewable resources.#
&AEM 2000 | Contemporary Controversies in the Global Economy&
#This course aims to stimulate critical thinking, economic reasoning, and cogent writing about contemporary controversies that attract regular attention in the international press and among key private and public sector decision-makers. Students read and discuss competing arguments about current issues such as morally questionable market exchange among willing buyers and sellers, immigration policy, foreign aid, sovereign debt forgiveness, regulating genetically modified foods, etc. Students write, edit, and rewrite short briefing papers which are evaluated for quality of communication as well as subject matter content.#
&AEM 2010 | Spreadsheet Modeling for Management and Economics&
#This course emphasizes applied decision making in the business world using Excel as a business analytics tool. The course covers theory behind decision-making and teaches students to apply tools and methods to various business scenarios throughout the semester. Understanding the value of such skills, this course will introduce students to navigating tools and applications, and typical business scenarios where such capabilities can be leveraged in business. Students dedicated to success in this course can expect to achieve a beginner to intermediate knowledge of spreadsheet modeling skills in an Excel platform. Students will enjoy a thorough exposure to real world applications and learn to demonstrate these new capabilities in a business environment. AEM 2010 will help students understand the dynamics of using Excel modeling to solve optimization problems, forecast future outcomes using assumptions and projections, and evaluate problems that involve uncertainty in order to inform business strategy and quantitative decision-making. In business analytic vernacular, students will learn to leverage descriptive, predictive and prescriptive analytic methods using data.#
&AEM 2011 | Spreadsheet Modeling for Non-Dyson Majors&
#This Excel based course will emphasize applied decision making in the business world. This introductory course covers the theory behind decision making and applying analytic tools like Excel to various business scenarios.  Understanding the value of such skills, this course will introduce students to methods used to navigate tools and applications, or typical business scenarios where such capabilities can be leveraged in business. Students dedicated to success in this course can expect to achieve a basic to intermediate understanding of many features available in Excel.  Students will enjoy a thorough exposure to real world applications related to leveraging the tool and learn to demonstrate new analytic capabilities in a business environment. AEM2011 will help students understand the dynamics of using Excel to solve optimization problems, forecast future outcomes using assumptions and projections, and evaluate problems that involve uncertainty in order to inform business strategy and quantitative decision-making.#
&AEM 2020 | Better Decisions for Life, Love and Money&
#Effective judgments and decisions are critical to success in every avenue of life. This course will explore research on the principles of sound judgment and decision making, and on the ways in which people's judgments and decisions are prone to bias and error. The course aims to improve students' critical thinking skills and to enable them to make better judgments and decisions in an increasingly complicated world. The course is taught by a team of psychologists and economists who draw on recent research in psychology and behavioral economics that can benefit the lives of students.#
&AEM 2025 | Work and Well-Being&
#What is the good life? Is it more than personal achievement, excellent health, and contentment? This course examines well-being in the context of work, with a focus on a sometimes-neglected aspect of the good life: doing good by contributing to the well-being of others and the planet. In this class, students will discover frameworks from social and moral psychology that help them identify their own ethical beacons, or what "really matters" (e.g., sustainability; reducing inequality), and develop a crucial skill in management: self-awareness. Through a combination of reflection and critical analysis of theory and research findings, students will build a practical understanding of a range of topics related to well-being at work, including meaning, authenticity, workplace culture, stress and burn-out, and organizational and personal values. At the same time, students will have the opportunity to envision a blueprint for their own future work as ethical leaders.#
&AEM 2210 | Financial Accounting&
#This is an introductory course on financial accounting intended for non-business majors. The course examines the format and creation of the four main financial statements prepared by organizations: income statement, balance sheet, statement of shareholders' equity, and statement of cash flows.#
&AEM 2220 | Dilemmas in Entrepreneurship&
#This course aims to introduce students to foundational theories and contemporary issues pertaining to entrepreneurship. A primary objective of this course is to broaden students' perspectives on entrepreneurship and the myriad ways that entrepreneurial activity contributes to innovation, economic growth, and society. Students will be introduced to foundational thinking, leading-edge research and key frameworks that address central questions of entrepreneurship. In addition, this course will help students develop a deeper understanding of their own interest in entrepreneurship and how it will help them to advance their careers.#
&AEM 2225 | Financial Accounting For Dyson Majors&
#Comprehensive introduction to financial accounting concepts and applications. Focuses primarily on recording and communicating financial information for use by external users such as investors, creditors and regulators, and is intended to provide a basic understanding of the accounting cycle, elements of financial statements, Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, and financial statement interpretation. Topics include accounting for inventory, receivables, depreciation, bonds, equity, and cash flows.#
&AEM 2240 | Finance for Dyson Majors&
#Focuses on the mathematics of finance, valuation, and the economics of managerial decisions, corporate financial policy, risk management, and investments. Topics include the time value of money, bond and stock valuation, capital-budgeting decisions, financing alternatives, the cost of capital and the capital-structure decision, distribution policy, mergers and acquisitions and restructuring, options, forward and futures contracts, market efficiency and market anomalies, strategies of successful investors, and personal finance.#
&AEM 2241 | Finance&
#This course is a survey of topics in finance. It focuses on the mathematics of finance, valuation, the economics of managerial decisions, corporate financial policy, risk management, investments, and personal finance.#
&AEM 2300 | International Trade and Finance&
#Introduction to international economic principles and issues. Begins by surveying key topics such as the elements of comparative advantage, tariff and nontariff barriers, and multilateral institutions. The second part of the course treats selected topics in international finance, including exchange rates, balance of payments, and capital markets. Discusses current issues such as the effects of trade liberalization, trade and economic growth, and instability in international capital markets. Designed as a less technical introduction to concepts developed at a more advanced level in AEM 4300 and ECON 4510-ECON 4520.#
&AEM 2310 | Business and Economics of Food&
#This course will examine the food system from an economic and business perspective. In the first part of the course, students will study the key economic and regulatory elements that affect the production of food. The second section will focus on the business aspects of food and beverage processing, distribution and retailing, and the material in the final section will focus on a range of contemporary business and economic issues that are relevant to consumers of food and beverages.#
&AEM 2420 | Marketing for Dyson Majors&
#Provides a broad introduction to the fundamentals of marketing. Explores the components of an organization's strategic marketing program, including targeting and positioning, and how to price, promote, and distribute goods and services. Marketing applications from various companies are presented and analyzed via multiple case discussions and field projects.#
&AEM 2480 | Food and Consumer Packaged Goods Industry Dynamics&
#Covers merchandising principles and practices as they apply to food industry situations. Examines the various elements of merchandising such as buying, pricing, advertising, promotion, display, store layout, profit planning and control, and merchandising strategy. Considers the consequences of food industry trends and initiatives for other industry members, public policy makers, and consumers.#
&AEM 2601 | Strategy&
#This course analyzes the sources of firms' competitive advantage and develops the knowledge and skills necessary to be an effective strategy analyst. The course is grounded in microeconomic concepts taught in AEM 2600 in terms of discipline, and draws from corporate finance, marketing, human resource management and organization science. This course uses both lecture, discussion and case studies to encourage students to develop skills in formulating strategy in a practical context.#
&AEM 2700 | Management Communication&
#Management Communication is intended to help you think strategically about communication and aid you in improving your writing, presentation, and interpersonal communication skills as a future manager. We will look at a set of "best practices" or guidelines that have been derived from both research and experience, give you the opportunity to put those guidelines into practice, and provide you with feedback on your work to help you strengthen your abilities. More often than not, we will be using a workshop format that will rely heavily on discussion and in-class exercises.#
&AEM 2710 | Interpersonal Influence and Impact&
#No description available.#
&AEM 2770 | Excursions in Computational Sustainability&
#Balancing environmental, economic, and societal needs for a sustainable future encompasses problems of unprecedented size and complexity. Computing and information science can play an important role in addressing critical sustainability challenges faced by present and future generations. The goal of the course is to introduce students to a range of sustainability challenges and to computational methods that can help address such challenges. Sustainability topics include sustainable development, biodiversity and wildlife conservation, poverty mitigation, food security, renewable resources, energy, transportation, and climate change. In the context of these sustainability topics, the course will introduce students to mathematical and computational modeling techniques, algorithms, and statistical methods. The course is at the introductory undergraduate level. Students are expected to have basic knowledge of probability theory and calculus.#
&AEM 2816 | Climate-Smart Agribusiness&
#With 690 million people around the world facing hunger and agri-food systems emitting one-third of all greenhouse gas emissions, it is urgent to achieve food security while adapting to – and mitigating – climate change. This course examines strategic business innovations in climate-smart agriculture, centered on the challenge of transforming global food systems with low carbon land-use practices. Students will use insights from economics to analyze the environmental impacts of farming and identify opportunities for transformative actions in agribusiness management. Our focus will be on four important economic sectors (rice, livestock, aquaculture, and agroforestry) in the context of three climate change mitigation strategies: (1) Sustainably increasing agricultural productivity and incomes; (2) Adapting and building resilience to climate change; and (3) Reducing and/or removing greenhouse gas emissions.#
&AEM 2818 | Sustainable Arguments&
#In Fall of 2015 the United Nations' General Assembly adopted a resolution titled, "Transforming Our World: The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development." This 35-page resolution includes an elaborate vision statement, a list of principles and commitments, and a list of 17 goals, among many other items. In 2022, the resolution is still very much in effect and having an impact on our world. Upon analyzing or reflecting on the text of the UN resolution and exploring its related goals and topics, we can quickly begin to identify the issues people, organizations, and governments are likely to argue over, or are already arguing over. Thus, UN goal and topic is up for argument, including facts (e.g., climate change) will be contested in one way or another, by someone or some group or another, and arguments of all kinds, formal and informal, will proliferate. It is amid these arguments about our sustainable future that this course will take place. Sustainable Arguments will focus on making and understanding data driven, logical, and rhetorically focused arguments about sustainability that connect to the UN's Agenda for Sustainable Development.#
&AEM 2830 | VBA for Data Analysis and Business Modeling&
#This course is an introduction to programming with Excel Visual Basic for Applications (VBA) for students aiming to enter the world
of business analytics. Using business applied cases students will increase decision making efficiency and productivity through a
detailed understanding of VBA programming languages.#
&AEM 2840 | Python Programming for Data Analysis and Business Modeling&
#This course is an introduction to programming with Python for students aiming to enter the world of business analytics. Using business applied cases students will increase decision making efficiency and productivity through a detailed understanding of Python programming languages. Students will also learn how to use a range of Python libraries for data analytics such as NumPy, MatPlotLib, Seaborn, Pandas, and Scikit.#
&AEM 2850 | R Programming for Business Analytics and Data Visualization&
#This course provides business students with an introduction to the most important tools in R for programming and data visualization. Students will learn the basics of R syntax, data structures, data wrangling, and data visualization using the grammar of graphics. After taking this course, students will have the tools to complete basic tasks in R and interface effectively with statisticians and data scientists in business settings. This course also provides a foundation for future coursework to implement more advanced statistical methods in R.#
&AEM 3000 | Working Together: Project Development and High-Performing Teams&
#Part of the Grand Challenges program, the Pre-Project Immersion prepares students to work with a team during their senior year to solve a societal problem. The Immersion is an intensive learning experience with reinforcements throughout the semester. Students will build skills in working as part of a team, presenting to a client, reflecting on their experience, and demonstrating cultural humility.#
&AEM 3050 | Negotiation Strategies and Skills&
#Negotiation is the art and science of securing agreements between two or more interdependent parties. To reach agreements, it is necessary to understand the behavior and relationships of individuals, groups and organizations in the context of cooperative and competitive situations. This course is designed to help you build a negotiation skillset that can be used in a broad set of organizational situations, as well as in your personal life. A basic premise of the course is that while you need analytic skills to discover or create optimal solutions to problems, you need a broader array of skills for these solutions to be accepted and implemented. During the course, you will develop these skills experientially and learn to apply relevant analytic frameworks.#
&AEM 3060 | Practitioner's Overview of Securities Markets and Asset Management&
#A broad overview of various aspects of the Fixed Income and Equities Markets and the role of Investment Banks. Topics, amongst others, will include: Securities Sales and Trading, Fiscal and Monetary Policy effects on Markets, Asset Management, Private Equity and Leveraged Buyouts, Mergers and Acquisitions, and Risk Management. Course will focus on real life practices and may include guest speakers, role playing and trading simulations.#
&AEM 3100 | Business Statistics&
#Focuses on techniques used to analyze data from marketing research, business, and economics.#
&AEM 3110 | Design and Innovation&
#This course introduces students to a design toolkit and mindset for creative problem solving that enables a shift from a 20th century, market-based perspective to a more sustainable, human-centered approach appropriate to this century's systemic challenges. Topics covered include: opportunity finding and innovation; the design thinking cycle of inspiration-interpretation-ideation-implementation; and visual communication. Students will learn to apply design strategies to their work to make it more integrated and collaborative. This course will require openness to new ways of (divergent) thinking.#
&AEM 3120 | Topics in Brand Management&
#Branding has become one of the most important aspects of business strategy. Developing brand identity and strategy are critical steps in successful marketing of a product. Developing a brand strategy requires an understanding of: what is branding, how to develop brand equity, how to reach the target audience, the importance of consistent communications and brand planning. This course includes the concepts of brand, brand equity and strategic brand management. Topics covered include Brand Equity, Consumer Communications, Reaching Consumers and Brand Planning. Post this class participants will understand the importance of building brand equity and communicating throughout all consumer touch points. Class work includes a combination of case studies, lectures, and class discussions. Topics discussed will relate to real life business situations.#
&AEM 3205 | Ethics in Business and Organizations&
#This course will survey ethical problems that arise in business and other organizational contexts, and develop theoretical resources
to help address them.#
&AEM 3230 | Managerial Accounting&
#This course provides an introduction to the basic concepts, analyses, uses, and procedures of accounting and control used by internal company managers when they are faced with planning, directing, controlling, and decision-making activities in their organization. Topics covered focus on the relationship between strategy and decision-making and include product and service costing, budget setting, decision-making, profitability analysis, pricing, investment analysis, management control systems, and performance measurement.#
&AEM 3251 | The Business Laboratory and New Venture Management&
#This course is a team oriented approach to allow students to understand through a simulation what happens when a new business is launched with funding in place. During the course of the implementation they will be presented with obstacles that often occur in "real-life " situations and learn how to develop creative ways to solve and overcome those obstacles. By the end of the term, it is expected that each team will have experienced (through simulation) managing a new venture.#
&AEM 3260 | Cooperative Business Management&
#An evaluation of the fundamental principles, structure, finance, management, and governance associated with cooperatively structured businesses, with an emphasis on agricultural cooperatives. Analyses of the cooperative business organization within the modern economy are emphasized through a mix of lectures, case study discussions, and engaged learning projects with cooperative industry clients.#
&AEM 3275 | Introduction to Machine Learning in Business&
#No description available.#
&AEM 3370 | Corporate Financial Reporting II&
#Continuation of the in-depth study of accounting theory, generally accepted accounting principles, and the techniques involved in measuring, recording, summarizing, and reporting financial data for business organizations. Learn the GAAP accounting for revenue, investments, pensions, taxes, accounting changes, and statement of cash flows. Understand accounting alternatives within GAAP and accounting alternatives to GAAP for the topics covered so that students are prepared to understand and use future changes in GAAP. Course objectives will be achieved by a combination of lectures and analyzing and discussing articles from the financial press and cases that are based on actual financial statements.#
&AEM 3385 | Social Entrepreneurship Practicum: Anabel's Grocery&
#AEM 3385 is a hands-on learning experience that serves as an entry point for new Anabel's Grocery team members, introducing them to social entrepreneurship, food justice, systems thinking, collaborative leadership practices, and the day-to-day operations of Anabel's. No prerequisites and no previous experience with Anabel's required. The course is open to students regardless of major. We are looking for students with diverse interests who are passionate about making healthy food accessible to everyone through practical actions that further racial, economic, and ecological justice. This experiential-based course meets once a week. It includes small group discussion sessions and a practicum commitment of about 4 hours per week.#
&AEM 3440 | Consumer Behavior&
#Develops a useful, conceptual understanding of the problem and strategies associated with the psychology behind consumer behavior. In doing so, the course provides frameworks that enable students to address these issues responsibly, systematically, and creatively.#
&AEM 3520 | Financial Statements Analysis&
#The course will focus on developing a framework for analyzing financial statements to make business decisions. The framework is intended to enhance the ability to qualitatively and quantitatively assess financial information. Goals of the course include learning to read financial statements for relevant information, understanding the impact of a business' accounting choices and estimates, analyzing financial ratios and cash flow measures and methods for valuation of a business. Cases are incorporated in class discussions and assignments in order to illustrate concepts and allow students to put into practice the tools presented.#
&AEM 4000 | Grand Challenges Project&
#Part of the Grand Challenges program, the Project Course is a capstone, team-based learning experience. Students work with a faculty member and a client or community partner to tackle a societal problem. Projects span the entire semester and, for larger projects, may extend to student cohorts over several semesters.#
&AEM 4003 | Grand Challenges Abroad III&
#No description available.#
&AEM 4005 | Rating Nations: Economic Performance and Other Indicators&
#There are various ways in which nations are rated and ranked. Rating agencies like S&P ranks nations on the basis of how good and safe they are in terms of investment returns. The World Bank's Doing Business report ranks nations in terms of how easy it is to do business in a nation. The UNDP ranks countries in terms of their level of "human development". This half semester course will introduce students to the theory and practice of rating and ranking nations in different ways. The students will be encouraged to develop their own ideas of new ways to rate and rank nations. One particular fledgling idea that will be discussed is how easy it is for citizens in different nations to interact with their government. We can call it the Living Life index, to chime with the World Bank's Ease of Doing Business index. It is hoped that by the end of the course we will have two or three concrete ideas for new ways of rating nations.#
&AEM 4015 | Customer Analytics and Strategy&
#Aimed at students who are interested in pursuing activities in customer strategy and analytics built around the notion of customer centricity. The primary objective of this course is to provide students with how customer relationship management (CRM) can help accomplish strategic initiatives, improve firm profitability and build lasting competitive advantage. Students will be exposed to the practical side of CRM through case studies and hands-on exercises. This course is particularly relevant for students interested in careers in consulting, strategy, marketing and retailing, as well as for entrepreneurs.#
&AEM 4060 | Risk Simulation and Monte Carlo Methods&
#This is a computer-based course that deals with the concepts of randomness and risk in financial management, capital budgeting, stock valuations, derivatives, and investment portfolios. The focus of the course is on applying realistic probability using Monte Carlo simulation to solve a variety of problems in finance.#
&AEM 4080 | Innovation And New Product Management&
#In a rapidly changing business environment where product life cycles are shortening and competition is intensifying, creating new products has become the most significant and most risky activity within a firm. This course aims to develop an understanding of the "state of the art" strategies, processes and methods used in developing new products. This course focuses on key new product issues including generation and assessment of ideas, value creation in competitive markets, the impact of disruptive technologies on mainstream industries, and the diffusion of innovative new products and services. This is a case based course, where students participate in a dynamic and interactive group environment to develop the capacity to use the information learned to make informed new product decisions.#
&AEM 4090 | Environmental Finance and Markets&
#This course provides an overview of environmental finance and markets, with particular emphasis on the development and use of financial instruments and investment strategies that seek to further the long-term sustainability of ecosystems. The course will explore the uses of such products as debt-for-nature swaps, environmental impact bonds, structured notes, and green bonds, and seek to illustrate both their potential and their limitations through a review of market transactions. The course will also explore how investment decisions can influence environmental outcomes, and the role that sustainable asset management strategies can have in achieving desired conservation objectives.#
&AEM 4095 | Digital Marketing&
#The purpose of this class is to introduce you to fundamental concepts in digital marketing and prepare you for roles as a marketer, entrepreneur or product manager. Students will be exposed to an overview of the major players in the advertising and digital industries, as well as a variety of tools commonly found in start-ups and technology firms. I will cover this using a mixture of case studies, lectures, and guest speakers. My hope is that you will leave this course with the skills and a plan that you could refer to when you interview for established firms or starting your technology venture. Each year I will also use an emerging digital technology as an anchor for the speakers and the assignments, such as the interaction of AI and digital marketing.#
&AEM 4100 | Applied Managerial Economics&
#Strategic management of businesses. Quantitative market analysis; costs, production processes, and firm organization; principle agent problems, market structure, pricing strategies.#
&AEM 4140 | Behavioral Economics and Managerial Decisions&
#Behavioral economics integrates psychology and economics by identifying systematic anomalies in decision making. These are now recognized to be an important source of error in business decisions, and they provide the foundation for both behavioral marketing and finance. The course compares rational choice theory with behavior both in lecture and through a series of economics experiments in which students face situations that are likely to lead to anomalies such as "the winner's curse," the status quo bias, hyperbolic discounting, and bias in assessing risks. Students have the opportunity to evaluate their own decision making.#
&AEM 4160 | Strategic Pricing&
#This quantitative course explores various pricing strategies by taking into consideration the role of consumer behavior, economics, statistics, and management science. Topics include: product tying and bundling, peak load pricing, price matching, warranty pricing, advanced booking, and the 99-cent pricing perceptions.#
&AEM 4190 | Strategic Thinking&
#The art of thinking strategically puts outdoing one's adversary at the core of the decision-making process, while anticipating that the adversary is doing exactly the same thing. Businesses make investment decisions and innovate products in anticipation of the reaction of their rivals; managers make pay contingent on peer performance, taking into account the reaction of their subordinates and superiors; national trade policies are formulated based on whether trading partners are committed to make credible concessions. This course introduces and explores the use of game theory to understand these interactions; students are expected to work with a balanced dose of both theory and relevant case studies. The objective of the course is to facilitate students' ability to think strategically on firm level issues (e.g., pricing, advertising wars, product differentiation, and entry deterrence) and strategic policy interaction in international economic relations (e.g., trade wars and the arms race).#
&AEM 4260 | Fixed-Income Securities&
#Focuses on fixed-income securities including corporate bonds, default-free bonds, and floating rate notes. Other topics include related financial instruments such as forwards and futures on fixed-income securities, interest rate swaps, bond options, and mortgage-backed securities. In addition to the analysis of specific types of fixed-income securities, there is an examination of the tools used in bond portfolio management.#
&AEM 4280 | Valuation of Capital Investment&
#This course is about the analysis of financial information for making decisions to invest in businesses. The primary focus is on quantitative stock selection and equity (share) valuation. Various valuation models will be examined in detail and applied in cases and projects involving listed companies. First, the issue of market efficiency will be explored. Second, important quantitative stock selection methods will be examined. Third, discounted cash flow models will be examined. This include models of shareholder value, the analysis of profitability, growth and valuation generation in a firm, forecasting earnings and cash flows, pro-forma analysis for strategy and planning, analysis of risk, and the determination of price/earnings and market-to-book ratios. Advanced topics on valuation including valuation by multiples and earnings management will then be discussed.#
&AEM 4300 | International Trade Policy&
#Examines the economic principles underlying international trade and monetary policy, and the policies, practices, and institutions that influence trade and foreign exchange markets. Also emphasizes applications to current topics in international trade policy, to trade in primary commodities, and to both developed and developing countries.#
&AEM 4315 | Economics of Developing Countries&
#The goal of this course is to expand students' understanding of the economics of developing countries. We will address questions like: why do some countries grow quickly and others slowly? What factors prevent countries, households, and individuals from escaping the cycle of poverty? How do policymakers balance economic growth and environmental sustainability? Why don't financial markets work well in most developing countries, and do informal institutions fill the gap? How do we analyze the challenges facing small-scale farming households, and how do decisions by those households influence migration, labor markets, and the growth of industry? How do we evaluate policies and programs in order to understand what works for development? The approach in this course will be primarily microeconomic, although a basic understanding of macroeconomics is important for some topics. Emphasis will be on theory, real-world examples, and reading and interpreting research and policy papers.#
&AEM 4350 | Political Economy of the WTO&
#The politics of the WTO and trade policy are explored. Examines what the WTO is, how it operates, how much power it really has, why it was created, and incentives for governments to cooperate. Also explores how WTO rules affect domestic politics and foreign policy goals and how WTO rules and agreements are enforced. Students also debate the effect of trade on growth and poverty.#
&AEM 4355 | Healthcare Entrepreneurship: Perspectives and Controversies&
#No description available.#
&AEM 4375 | Business Design&
#This engaged learning course applies design strategies to real-world problems in a business context; in other words, we take a human-centered approach to innovation. Students will act as business design consultants working directly with a social enterprise client on a set of challenges throughout the semester, applying design tools, theories and overall process to a project that results in a portfolio-ready deliverable. Working in multidisciplinary teams with real deadlines and deliverables, students will use a design toolkit and mindset for creative problem solving. This collaboration will allow students to immerse themselves in a professional setting in which they explore business opportunities; develop innovative concepts; and propose and prototype innovative and entrepreneurial solutions. Students will tackle issues and challenges such as new product, service or business model development; organizational structure and growth; and external threats and opportunities. Past clients include the City of Ithaca Economic Development and Finger Lakes ReUse.#
&AEM 4410 | Marketing Research&
#This course provides a fundamental understanding of marketing research methods typically employed by firms. It is primarily aimed towards the manager who must decide the direction of research activities and focuses on how one should design research, construct questionnaires, and collect and analyze data. The course will primarily focus on the interpretation and use of results rather than mathematical derivations. Students will be exposed to the practical side of marketing research through problem sets and projects.#
&AEM 4421 | Research and Strategy in Emerging Markets&
#This course complements the Student Multidisciplinary Applied Research Teams (SMART) Program and is only open to students participating in the SMART Program. This course offers students unique research and strategy development opportunities with small and medium enterprises (SMEs), non-profit organizations, public agencies, and other disadvantaged communities in emerging markets. To achieve this, the course is divided into two parts: stakeholder engagement and field research, which takes place during the winter intermission (students travel to the field for data collection and client engagement) and in-class instruction and project development, which takes place during the spring semester. In this second phase, students analyze and report their collected field data through the development of case studies, policy briefs, technical reports, and research papers.#
&AEM 4480 | Brand Management&
#No description available.#
&AEM 4500 | Resource Economics&
#AEM 4500/ECON 3860 introduces students to the economics of renewable and nonrenewable natural resources. Topics covered include the valuation and use of land; water economics, management, and conservation; the extraction and management of nonrenewable resources such as minerals, rare earth elements, and energy resources; renewable and nonrenewable sources of energy; forest management; fishery economics; groundwater; natural resource markets, demand, and supply; and sustainability. Students will learn how to use dynamic models to analyze decision-making over time, and to solve dynamic optimization problems analytically and numerically. Students will also learn how to analyze and explain the intuition and logic behind the theory and concepts. Students will apply the methods, quantitative tools, and concepts to analyze natural resource issues at global and local levels; to introspectively reflect on their own lives and future aspirations; and to draw lessons and implications for leadership, management, and policy. A solid background in calculus is required.#
&AEM 4510 | Environmental Economics&
#This class will focus on the role of the environment in the theory and practice of economics. It will make use of microeconomic analysis at the intermediate level and will incorporate real-world examples. It examines market failure, externalities, benefit-cost analysis, nonmarket valuation techniques, and cost-effective policy instruments.#
&AEM 4521 | Cost Accounting and Management Control&
#Cost Accounting and Management Control is a senior seminar focused on managerial decision making and uses of internal accounting data (i.e., revenue and costs; incentive contracts; forecasts; etc.). You will integrate knowledge acquired in your undergraduate accounting courses with that from other courses, readings from current academic and professional literature, and related articles to sharpen skills related to cost assessment, performance evaluation, and managerial control. This course is designed to explicitly consider the role of uncertainty and other statistical issues when making corporate decisions. For the most part, this course is a "selected topics" course; focusing on topics intimately related with managerial decision making.#
&AEM 4532 | Fraud Examination&
#Fraud Examination is a senior seminar designed to allow you access to theories of fraud examination, to develop an understanding of the fraud examination process, and to provide a background in fraud-related issues.#
&AEM 4534 | Federal Income Taxation of Real Estate Ventures&
#This course presents the tax skills necessary to make business, and personal, decisions as it relates to real estate ventures. Emphasis is placed on such areas as acquiring ownership of real property, the various entity structures that a real estate venture can create, and the operational rules surrounding a real estate venture, including the sale and/or exchange of real estate. In addition, securitized real estate investments, such as limited/master limited partnerships and real estate investment trusts (REITS), will be introduced in the later part of course. Practical application of the tax law will be emphasized with proper consideration placed on the historical, economic and political perspectives of the Internal Revenue Code (IRC). The content and design of this course is, only, suitable for advanced undergraduate students and graduate students.#
&AEM 4550 | Economics of Advertising&
#This is an analytical and quantitative course focusing on advertising strategy. How does advertising affect product demand and competitive responses from rival products? Why and how do consumers respond to advertising? What is their sensitivity to advertising expenditures, if any? Can we measure that sensitivity? These are some of the questions analyzed during this course.#
&AEM 4560 | Federal Income Taxation of Business Entities, Estates and Trusts&
#This course presents the tax skills necessary to make business decisions regarding Corporations, Partnerships, Estates and Trusts. Emphasis is placed on such areas as organization and capital structure, earnings and profits, dividend distribution, redemptions, liquidations and reorganization of corporations. In addition, flow through entities such as partnerships and S Corporations will be studied along with estates, trusts, family tax planning and exempt entities. Practical application of the tax law will be emphasized with proper consideration placed on the historical, economic and political perspectives of the Internal Revenue.#
&AEM 4570 | Corporate Finance&
#This course is designed to advance the understanding of corporate financial decision making. The class will further the corporate finance topics taught in AEM 2240 such cost of capital, capital structure, mergers and acquisitions, and dividend policy. Some topics in international corporate finance topics will also be discussed.#
&AEM 4572 | Entrepreneurial Finance and Private Equity&
#This course studies entrepreneurial finance and, more broadly, private equity finance. Private equity (PE) includes primarily venture capital (VC), growth equity, and buyouts. The course is motivated by a substantial increase in supply and demand for private equity. The course's primary objective is to provide an understanding of the concepts and institutions involved in entrepreneurial finance and PE markets. We will explore these two markets: 1) Venture Capital 2) Buyout (narrow definition of Private Equity) from the perspective of three players: 1) Entrepreneurs and startup employees, buyout-backed company's management and employees 2) Venture capital and buyout fund managers (i.e., General Partners or GPs) 3) Investors in venture capital and buyout funds (i.e., Limited Partners or LPs).#
&AEM 4600 | Predictive Analytics for Business Strategy&
#This course teaches students how data analysis informs business strategy, using a framework of logical reasoning and practical communication. We will develop analytical skills and gather hands-on experience with data to understand how strategic decisions affect firm performance, for example in the context of economic consulting. The material will focus on a subdivision of predictive analytics called active prediction, and students will learn the basics of identification to determine what data are most useful when answering a given empirical question.#
&AEM 4615 | Digital Platform Strategy&
#Business platforms are a set of business and technology building blocks that serve to facilitate the creation of complementary products and services. They are an essential feature of modern economies, particularly among products and services created by software. The emphasis of this course is on how to create, grow, gain value and capture market share from platforms. Course content will draw concepts from network effects, information asymmetry, pricing, and game theory. Students will apply these concepts to make decisions on how to manage platforms in case studies drawing from social media, entrepreneurship, enterprise software, and mobile services, among others. The course will be useful for students interested in founding new businesses, managing technology ventures and investing.#
&AEM 4620 | Digital Innovation in Media Markets & Creative Industries&
#No description available.#
&AEM 4650 | Strategic Management of Technology and Innovation&
#This is a foundational strategy course for students who will work for firms where innovation and technology is important to the competitive advantage of the firm. This includes tech firms like Google, Facebook, and Amazon as well as traditional technology firms like GE, IBM, and Corning. Innovation is also increasingly important to financial firms such as Capital One, Citibank and Jane Street (a quantitative trading firm). This year we will have guest speakers from Jane Street, Capital One labs and Apple. This course is important for students interested in consulting because innovation is a common topic that consultants have to address. It is also relevant to students with interests in entrepreneurship and corporate venturing.#
&AEM 4660 | Business Simulation&
#Course is required for completing the Dyson Business Minor for Engineers, but is open to all majors. By participating in a business simulation, students get experience applying key business principles, such as finance, accounting, marketing, economics and management in dynamic marketing settings. Participants make team-based and individual decisions based on imperfect information and aggressive time constraints. Through analysis, coaching and facilitation, the experience leads to learning the ways specific business decisions influence firm performance in a dynamic marketplace.#
&AEM 4661 | Business Simulation Capstone for Business Minors in Life Sciences&
#This course is a business simulation course in which each student works as part of a team to manage a multidisciplinary healthcare clinic. Each team is responsible for making semi-annual decisions in four broad areas: revenues, payer mix, employees, and services. Teams will start in the same position, competing with one another to gain market share, generate revenue, and increase profitability.#
&AEM 4670 | Investments&
#This course discusses a wide range of investments-related topics, both conceptually and analytically. We first study basic frameworks that provide investors guidance on how to value securities and make investment decisions; topics include basic concepts of return, risk, and prices, asset allocations, the capital asset pricing model, and performance evaluation. We then study empirical patterns of asset prices and discuss the implications of these patterns for investors' trading strategies; here, we introduce the important concept of market efficiency. Next, we discuss bond market investing and the yield curve, as well as derivative contracts such as futures and options. Finally, we discuss selected topics in behavioral finance, an active subfield within finance that tries to improve our understanding of financial markets and investor behavior using frameworks that are psychologically realistic; here, topics include a set of systematic mistakes real-world investors make, the underlying mechanisms that cause these mistakes, and ways to improve financial decision making.#
&AEM 4681 | Impact Finance&
#This course provides a detailed study on multiple financial markets including bonds, forwards, futures, swaps, and options and their role in addressing major issues facing humanity. In particular, we plan to study specific topics on the role of financial markets in addressing important issues like funding cancer cure, tackling climate change, and financing educational needs for the underserved. Relative to a traditional finance class, we take a broad approach and think of finance as a way to get things done and financial instruments as a way to solve problems. We explore topics related to diversification and purpose investing, including a highly innovative idea of a mega-fund developing cancer treatment. We examine how financial instruments can help solve or hedge some societal issues, particularly on climate change. As an example, we will be studying a financial solution to deal with California forest fire. We also examine the potential for social impact bonds for educating pre-school children and reducing prisoners' recidivism.#
&AEM 4875 | Low-Income Taxpayer Law & Accounting Practicum&
#This is a one-semester experiential course where students learn about low-income taxpayer issues as well as prepare individual income tax returns and offer tax advice for low-income taxpayers in the Tompkins County community. In addition to providing a valuable service to the community, students develop their professional skills and client service skills as well as proficiency with a professional tax preparation software product and a deeper understanding of technical tax issues.#
&AEM 4940 | Undergraduate Special Topics in Applied Economics and Management&
#The department teaches "trial" courses under this number. Offerings vary by semester and are advertised by the department before the beginning of the semester.#
&AEM 4960 | Applied Economics and Management Internship&
#Evaluation of internship experience requiring the following written submission at the end of the term. 1) Internship job description and copies of training materials provided. 2) Weekly diary including descriptions of job responsibilities and reflections/insights on those experiences. 3) Three to five page paper reflecting on how the internship related to the academic program. All internships must be approved by the internship coordinator before the work experience segment.#
&AEM 4961 | Perspectives in Global Development&
#A variety of speakers present seminars on international development topics relating to sustainable development throughout the world. Students attend each seminar and submit a five-page essay at the end of the semester reflecting on the speakers' presentations and analyzing connections between topics.#
&AEM 4970 | Individual Study in Applied Economics and Management&
#Used for special projects designed by faculty members.#
&AEM 4980 | Supervised Teaching Experience&
#Designed to give qualified undergraduates experience through actual involvement in planning and teaching courses under the supervision of department faculty. Students cannot receive both pay and credit for the same hours of preparation and teaching.#
&AEM 4990 | Undergraduate Research&
#Permits outstanding undergraduates to carry out independent study of suitable problems under appropriate supervision. Students cannot receive both pay and credit for the same hours of work.#
&AEM 4992 | Undergraduate Accounting and Tax Research&
#Permits outstanding undergraduates to carry out independent study of suitable problems under appropriate supervision. Students cannot receive both pay and credit for the same hours of work. This course meets one of the educational components of the New York state CPA exam.#
&AEM 5110 | Design and Innovation&
#This course introduces students to a design toolkit and mindset for creative problem solving that enables a shift from a 20th century, market-based perspective to a more sustainable, human-centered approach appropriate to this century's systemic challenges. Topics covered include: opportunity finding and innovation; the design thinking cycle of inspiration-interpretation-ideation-implementation; and visual communication. Students will learn to apply design strategies to their work to make it more integrated and collaborative. This course will require openness to new ways of (divergent) thinking.#
&AEM 5210 | Business and Economics of Food&
#This course will examine the food system from an economic and business perspective. In the first part of the course, students will study the key economic and regulatory elements that affect the production of food. The second section will focus on the business aspects of food and beverage processing, distribution and retailing, and the material in the final section will focus on a range of contemporary business and economic issues that are relevant to consumers of food and beverages.#
&AEM 5241 | Finance&
#This course is a survey of topics in finance. It focuses on the mathematics of finance, valuation, the economics of managerial decisions, corporate financial policy, risk management, investments, and personal finance.#
&AEM 5260 | Cooperative Business Management&
#An evaluation of the fundamental principles, structure, finance, management, and governance associated with cooperatively structured businesses, with an emphasis on agricultural cooperatives. Analyses of the cooperative business organization within the modern economy are emphasized through a mix of lectures, case study discussions, and engaged learning projects. Additional industry engagement is expected of graduate students by developing cooperative business educational curricula and delivering to relevant stakeholder audiences in collaboration with Cornell's Cooperative Enterprise Program.#
&AEM 5275 | Introduction to Machine Learning in Business&
#No description available.#
&AEM 5280 | Valuation of Capital Investment&
#This course is about the analysis of financial information for making decisions to invest in businesses. The primary focus is on quantitative stock selection and equity (share) valuation. Various valuation models will be examined in detail and applied in cases and projects involving listed companies. First, the issue of market efficiency will be explored. Second, important quantitative stock selection methods will be examined. Third, discounted cash flow models will be examined. This include models of shareholder value, the analysis of profitability, growth and valuation generation in a firm, forecasting earnings and cash flows, pro-forma analysis for strategy and planning, analysis of risk, and the determination of price/earnings and market-to-book ratios. Advanced topics on valuation including valuation by multiples and earnings management will then be discussed.#
&AEM 5305 | Global Citizenship Seminar&
#Through this two-day immersion seminar as part of the broader CEMS curriculum, students will learn and gain skills related to participating in (and leading) teams of diverse individuals. The seminar-and our classroom time-will be approached as a partnership. Questions will be posed regularly and frequently throughout the course to support learning from each other. The main themes for the two-day sessions are: What is leadership? How do organizations (mis)identify leaders? What is the difference between ascribed and achieved leadership? What are the benefits of teamwork (and why is it increasing in the workplace? How do effective teams operate? What skills are most helpful for successful team participation?#
&AEM 5315 | Leadership and Management in Global Environments and Organizations&
#Business firms with global operations and activities present unique layers of managerial and leadership challenges on top of those already associated with running a successful business. This course identifies those challenges at the industry, organizational, team and individual levels and indicates available solutions and implementations of solutions to those challenges. The course emphasizes the organic nature of the growth of the global enterprise and the challenges it presents to organizational citizens and leaders; the difficulties associated with creating coherent organizational structures and cultures across national and regional borders; the potential and actual differences in institutional and cultural practices across national and regional borders; and finally the ethical challenges posed by both the large institutional and cultural distances across organizational units in a multinational enterprise as well as by the nature of cross-cultural and cross-institutional business contacts in an environment of global firms.#
&AEM 5320 | CEMS Seminar Series&
#This course, designed for those poised to embark on their professional journeys, offers an exploration into the intersections of career development, decision-making, and dimensions of leadership pertaining to teams and dynamic environments. Over the span of seven intensive three-hour sessions, students will engage in a combination of discussions and group activities that foster collaborative learning and holistic personal growth. The curriculum covers a diverse range of topics, from aligning individual passions with career trajectories to delving into dynamic management considerations (such as those involving adaptation and emergent strategies). By its conclusion, participants will have acquired a broader worldview and a set of practical tools to effectively navigate the complexities of both their career and personal endeavors in dynamic situations.#
&AEM 5410 | Marketing Research&
#This course provides a fundamental understanding of marketing research methods typically employed by firms. It is primarily aimed towards the manager who must decide the direction of research activities and focuses on how one should design research, construct questionnaires, and collect and analyze data. The course will primarily focus on the interpretation and use of results rather than mathematical derivations. Students will be exposed to the practical side of marketing research through problem sets and projects.#
&AEM 5421 | Research and Strategy in Emerging Markets&
#This course complements the Student Multidisciplinary Applied Research Teams (SMART) Program and is only open to students participating in the SMART Program. This course offers students unique research and strategy development opportunities with small and medium enterprises (SMEs), non-profit organizations, public agencies, and other disadvantaged communities in emerging markets. To achieve this, the course is divided into two parts: stakeholder engagement and field research, which takes place during the winter intermission (students travel to the field for data collection and client engagement) and in-class instruction and project development, which takes place during the spring semester. In this second phase, students analyze and report their collected field data through the development of case studies, policy briefs, technical reports, and research papers.#
&AEM 5480 | From Labels to Lab-Grown Meat: Consumer Behavior and the Food Industry&
#Through reading, writing, and discussion students will broaden their understanding of the food market and its components. The course will introduce students to current research on consumer perceptions and behavior with regard to food. Topics will be covered with an eye toward understanding the landscape of the food industry and how consumer behavior shapes opportunities within this space. Students will write short case studies relating to each of the course modules exploring the current trends in the industry. This will include assessing the market potential for novel and controversial foods or food services. It may also include researching food companies that have either successfully or unsuccessfully attempted to innovate, or policies that have attempted to change food behavior.#
&AEM 5500 | Resource Economics&
#AEM 5500 introduces students to the economics of renewable and nonrenewable natural resources. Topics covered include the valuation and use of land; water economics, management, and conservation; the extraction and management of nonrenewable resources such as minerals, rare earth elements, and energy resources; renewable and nonrenewable sources of energy; forest management; fishery economics; groundwater; natural resource markets, demand, and supply; and sustainability. Students will learn how to use dynamic models to analyze decision-making over time, and to solve dynamic optimization problems analytically and numerically. Students will also learn how to analyze and explain the intuition and logic behind the theory and concepts. Students will apply the methods, quantitative tools, and concepts to analyze natural resource issues at global and local levels; to introspectively reflect on their own lives and future aspirations; and to draw lessons and implications for leadership, management, and policy. A solid background in calculus is required.#
&AEM 5510 | Environmental Economics&
#This class will focus on the role of the environment in the theory and practice of economics. It will make use of microeconomic analysis at the intermediate level and will incorporate real-world examples. It examines market failures, externalities, benefit-cost analysis, non-market valuation techniques, cost-effective policy instruments, and recent applied work on the economics of the environment.#
&AEM 5570 | Corporate Finance&
#This course provides a rigorous treatment of the core concepts of corporate finance for finance majors. Topics studied in this course include, but are not limited to, capital budgeting, corporate governance, capital structure, payout policy, valuation, raising capital, risk management, and mergers and acquisitions.#
&AEM 5605 | Predictive Analytics for Business Strategy&
#This course teaches students how data analysis informs business strategy, using a framework of logical reasoning and practical communication. We will develop analytical skills and gather hands-on experience with data to understand how strategic decisions affect firm performance, for example in the context of economic consulting. The material will focus on a subdivision of predictive analytics called active prediction, and students will learn the basics of identification to determine what data are most useful when answering a given empirical question.#
&AEM 5615 | Digital Platform Strategy&
#Business platforms are a set of business and technology building blocks that serve to facilitate the creation of complementary products and services. They are an essential feature of modern economies, particularly among products and services created by software. The emphasis of this course is on how to create, grow, gain value, and capture market share from platforms. Course content will draw concepts from network effects, information asymmetry, pricing, and game theory. Students will apply these concepts to make decisions on how to manage platforms in case studies drawing from social media, entrepreneurship, enterprise software, and mobile services, among others. The course will be useful for students interested in founding new businesses, managing technology ventures, and investing.#
&AEM 5620 | Digital Innovation in Media Markets & Creative Industries&
#No description available.#
&AEM 5650 | Strategic Management of Technology and Innovation&
#This is a foundational strategy course for students who will work for firms where innovation and technology is important to the competitive advantage of the firm. This includes tech firms like Google, Facebook, and Amazon as well as traditional technology firms like GE, IBM, and Corning. Innovation is also increasingly important to financial firms such as Capital One, Citibank and Jane Street (a quantitative trading firm). This year we will have guest speakers from Jane Street, Capital One labs and Apple. This course is important for students interested in consulting because innovation is a common topic that consultants have to address. It is also relevant to students with interests in entrepreneurship and corporate venturing.#
&AEM 5670 | Investments&
#The course provides a broad overview of investment management, focusing on the application of finance theory to the issues faced by portfolio managers and investors in general.  Topics include asset allocation, asset pricing models such as the capital asset pricing model and arbitrage pricing theory, active portfolio management, and performance evaluation.  These tools provide a disciplined way of thinking about investment decisions, while simultaneously framing how we think about the historical performance of markets.  While particular attention will be given to equity markets, we will also touch on implications for fixed income and derivative securities.  Finally, we will spend time looking at alternative asset classes such as hedge funds and private equity.#
&AEM 5700 | MPS Management Communication&
#Communication is perhaps the most complex thing humans do. It is arguably the most critical skill for thriving and surviving in almost any situation in the business world. This course is designed to improve your oral communication and presentation skills in the business environment. Course content includes hands-on lessons in effective design along with individual team, and virtual presentations. Public speaking, interpersonal skills, critical thinking, and problem-solving skills are emphasized. Development of these skills is integrated with the use of technology.#
&AEM 5710 | Interpersonal Influence and Impact&
#No description available.#
&AEM 5840 | Python Programming for Data Analysis and Business Modeling&
#Data-driven decision making and the use of analytical approaches are critical skills for success in business. Analytics skills are increasing in demand and in many cases, are required for business professionals. The new technologies and development such as personal electrical devices, social media, online shopping, ... resulted in exponential growth in the amount of data we generate and collect on a daily basis. Companies are highly interested in extracting knowledge from these sources. To be able to manipulate and analyze a large structured and unstructured dataset, you need to learn how to code. In this course, by learning Python, one of the most popular programming languages, you are taking a significant step in data analysis. You will learn how to design and code an algorithm and manipulate datasets.#
&AEM 5850 | R Programming for Business Analytics and Data Visualization&
#This course provides business students with an introduction to the most important tools in R for programming and data visualization. Students will learn the basics of R syntax, data structures, data wrangling, and data visualization using the grammar of graphics. After taking this course, students will have the tools to complete basic tasks in R and interface effectively with statisticians and data scientists in business settings. This course also provides a foundation for future coursework to implement more advanced statistical methods in R.#
&AEM 6050 | Agricultural Finance and Development&
#This course is a seminar course dedicated to understanding the role of agricultural finance in developed and developing economies. Weekly instruction will include lectures on key issues as needed and discussion of scholarly research. Topics may include, but are not limited to: the role of credit in agricultural productivity, financial inclusion and rural transformation, the role of microcredit in agricultural development, agricultural credit policies, risk and credit.#
&AEM 6061 | Risk Simulation and Monte Carlo Methods&
#Risk Simulation and Monte Carlo Methods deals with the concepts of randomness and risk in financial management, project analysis, capital budgeting, stock valuations, derivatives, and investment portfolios. The focus of the course is on applying realistic probability models through Monte Carlo simulation and optimization to a wide variety of relevant problems in investment, agriculture and other applications. In a addition to lectures, weekly seminars will This seminar will explore the development of Monte Carlo simulation from a historical point of view, examine in greater detail stochastic processes, and understand the basic structure of Ito processes and the stochastic calculus and how to employ these techniques in Monte Carlo simulations.#
&AEM 6090 | Environmental Finance and Markets&
#This course provides an overview of environmental finance and markets, with particular emphasis on the development and use of financial instruments and investment strategies that seek to further the long-term sustainability of ecosystems. The course will explore the uses of such products as debt-for-nature swaps, environmental impact bonds, structured notes, and green bonds, and seek to illustrate both their potential and their limitations through a review of market transactions. The course will also explore how investment decisions can influence environmental outcomes, and the role that sustainable asset management strategies can have in achieving desired conservation objectives.#
&AEM 6150 | Applied Behavioral Economics in Finance and Marketing&
#Behavioral economics has been popularized in people's mindsets through books like Nudge (Thaler and Sunstein, 2008) and Thinking, Fast and Slow (Kahneman, 2013). However, it is only more recently that businesses have started to apply behavioral economics in business applications and corporate initiatives. This proposed course will focus on developing students' knowledge and abilities in applying behavioral economics to consumer financial decision making and marketing contexts within companies. The course will be designed to be interactive with cases (e.g., in-class discussion) and project assignments (e.g., behavioral audits, A/B test design, behavioral solution proposals).#
&AEM 6300 | Policy Analysis: Welfare Theory, Agriculture, and Trade&
#The first half of the course surveys the theory of welfare economics as a foundation for public policy analysis. Major issues addressed include the problem of social welfare measurement, the choice of welfare criteria, and the choice of market or nonmarket allocation. Basic concepts covered include measurement of welfare change, including the compensation principle, consumer and producer surplus, willingness-to-pay measures, externalities, and the general theory of second-best optima. The second half focuses on public policy analysis as applied to domestic agricultural policy and international trade. The domestic policy component examines major U.S. farm commodity programs and related food and macroeconomic policies and analyzes their effects on producers, consumers, and other groups. The international trade component examines the structure of world agricultural trade, analytical concepts of trade policy analysis, and the principal trade policies employed by countries in international markets.#
&AEM 6400 | Analysis of Agricultural Markets&
#Focuses on the unique features of agricultural commodity markets. Emphasizes government and private institutions that affect these markets, as well as on models of price behavior including marketing margins and imperfect competition. Also covers empirical tools to evaluate market characteristics.#
&AEM 6440 | Consumer Behavior&
#Develops a useful, conceptual understanding of the problem and strategies associated with the psychology behind consumer behavior. In doing so, the course provides frameworks that enable students to address these issues responsibly, systematically, and creatively.#
&AEM 6480 | Food and Consumer Packaged Goods Industry Dynamics&
#Covers merchandising principles and practices as they apply to food industry situations. Examines the various elements of merchandising such as buying, pricing, advertising, promotion, display, store layout, profit planning and control, and merchandising strategy. Considers the consequences of food industry trends and initiatives for other industry members, public policy makers, and consumers. A 3-4 page (max) report on each of the Guest Speaker presentations focusing on identifying links to behavioral economics principles and solutions to problems/issues raised by the speaker is required. Students will also meet outside class to discuss guest speaker presentations in the context of their own ongoing projects.#
&AEM 6510 | Environmental and Resource Economics&
#Review of welfare economics, environmental externalities, and common property resources, and a survey of current environmental and natural resource policy. Covers techniques for measuring benefits and costs-including property value and wage hedonic approaches, travel cost models, and contingent evaluation. Describes survey/data collection methods in detail. Explores innovative market mechanisms for resolving public good, common property, and externality problems. Students are required to complete a paper describing their own formal economic analysis of a natural resource or environmental problem.#
&AEM 6681 | Impact Finance&
#This course provides a detailed study on multiple financial markets including bonds, forwards, futures, swaps, and options and their role in addressing major issues facing humanity. In particular, we plan to study specific topics on the role of financial markets in addressing important issues like funding cancer cure, tackling climate change, and financing educational needs for the underserved. Relative to a traditional finance class, we take a broad approach and think of finance as a way to get things done and financial instruments as a way to solve problems. We explore topics related to diversification and purpose investing, including a highly innovative idea of a mega-fund developing cancer treatment. We examine how financial instruments can help solve or hedge some societal issues, particularly on climate change. As an example, we will be studying a financial solution to deal with California forest fire. We also examine the potential for social impact bonds for educating pre-school children and reducing prisoners' recidivism.#
&AEM 6850 | Empirical Methods for Applied Economists&
#The course introduces students to various empirical methods and practices necessary to conduct applied research and analysis in microeconomics in a data-rich world. The course format is hands-on and students will conduct most of their work on computers in Python. Students will be graded on 1- participation, 2- weekly empirical exercises and 3- final project (chosen by the student). Topics covered include: 1- basics of Python programming 2- efficient coding practices for replication, teamwork and debugging 3- data gathering and manipulation (APIs and scraping) 4- effective data visualization 5- basic analysis of spatial data and networks 6- numerical methods (Monte Carlo simulations, bootstrapping techniques).#
&AEM 6940 | Graduate Special Topics in Applied Economics and Management&
#The department teaches "trial" courses under this number. Offerings vary by semester and are advertised by the department before the beginning of the semester.#
&AEM 6960 | Perspectives in Global Development&
#A variety of speakers present seminars on international development topics relating to sustainable development throughout the world. Students attend each seminar and submit a five-page essay at the end of the semester reflecting on the speakers' presentations and analyzing connections between topics.#
&AEM 6980 | Supervised Graduate Teaching Experience&
#Designed to give graduate students teaching experience through involvement in planning and teaching courses under the supervision of departmental faculty members. The experience may include leading discussion sections, preparing, assisting in, or teaching lectures and laboratories, and tutoring. Students are expected to actually teach at least one hour per week for each credit awarded. Students may not receive both pay and credit for the same hours of preparation and teaching.#
&AEM 6990 | M.P.S. Research&
#Students complete a problem solving project addressing practical issues in applied economics and/or management.#
&AEM 6992 | MPS Research Seminar II&
#Applying economic concepts to managerial decisions addressing substantive issues requires operationalization of concepts, finding appropriate samples of a population from which to generalize, and determining the causal inferences that can be draw from any relationships observed. This core course for MPS students mentors students through the execution of practical research projects. Students will work in teams and focus will be given to effective research strategies and effective communication of results and progress.#
&AEM 6993 | CEMS Masters in International Management Project&
#The CEMS Masters in International Management Project requires students to work in culturally and functionally diverse teams to solve real international business strategy and management problems for actual organizations engaged in activities that span national borders. Student teams are matched with corporate and social partners and given a consulting assignment, which the teams resolve with interaction with their corporate and social partners and supervision from the professor. In addition to the actual consulting work, the course includes a set of skill building and debriefing meetings referring to information acquisition and analysis, critical thinking in an organizational environment, consulting practice, project management, and processes of team formation and management. The result of the project is a comprehensive report and formal presentation to the corporate or social partner.#
&AEM 7000 | Individual Study in Applied Economics and Management&
#Used for special projects designed by faculty members. More than one topic may be given each semester in different sections. Student must register in section appropriate to topic being covered; section number is provided by instructor.#
&AEM 7005 | Urban and Real Estate Economics&
#This course explores links between urbanization and real estate markets. High downtown rents reflect the benefits of proximity to other companies and natural features like port facilities. High housing costs reflect proximity to jobs and the lure of urban amenities. At the same time, segregation and congestion are often exacerbated by urbanization, the costs of which are seen in inequality, crime, pollution, and traffic jams. Urban real estate markets are also affected by local government policy, including enforcement of property rights, zoning, tax and subsidy programs. Shrinking rust belt cities and work from home threaten to undermine urban real estate markets, while volatility and uncertainty contributes to mispricing. These and related ideas will be explored drawing on context from countries around the world.#
&AEM 7010 | Applied Microeconomics&
#Familiarize students with applied microeconomic research in production-related topics in agriculture, development and the environment.#
&AEM 7020 | Applied Microeconomics II: Game Theory&
#This course teaches the fundamentals of non-cooperative game theory and classic applications used in applied work in economics and related fields such as finance, marketing, operations, and accounting. The course begins with a brief primer on non-cooperative game theory that covers pure versus mixed strategies, Nash equilibrium, and various equilibrium refinements. Coverage then turns to basic frameworks that utilize game theory to model a wide range of settings in economics and related fields. These include agency analysis, classic asymmetric information models such as adverse selection and signaling, time inconsistency, and repeated games and reputation.#
&AEM 7021 | Applied Microeconomics III: Applied General Equilibrium Analysis&
#This is a semester-long course on general equilibrium theory and its applications, in- tended for doctoral students who plan to conduct research using the tools of microe- conomics and general equilibrium. The objectives of this course are three-fold: (i) to provide students with a systematic grounding in the fundamentals of general equilibrium modeling, (ii) to prepare students to use these tools in their own research, and (iii) to expose students to a broad (though necessarily selective) array of topical areas in which general equilibrium modeling is at the research frontier.#
&AEM 7100 | Econometrics I&
#This is an applied econometrics course with an extensive "hands-on" approach. Covers linear and discrete choice models and estimation methods such as GMM and MLE. Programming using Stata or Matlab is expected.#
&AEM 7151 | Applied Microeconomic Research II&
#Consists of an applied microeconomic research project. Students are required to select a mentor for the project.#
&AEM 7500 | Resource Economics&
#This course covers analytic methods for analyzing optimal control theory problems; analytic and numerical methods for solving dynamic programming problems; numerical methods for solving stochastic dynamic programming problems; structural econometric models of static games of incomplete information; structural econometric models of single-agent dynamic optimization problems; and structural econometric models of multi-agent dynamic games. The course also covers economic applications of these methods that are relevant to the environment, energy, natural resources, agriculture, development, management, finance, marketing, industrial organization, and business economics. These applications include firm investment, nonrenewable resource extraction, optimal economic growth, fisheries, subsistence agriculture, investment under uncertainty, optimal stopping, (S,s) policies, q-theory, petroleum production, water management, environmental policy, engine replacement, land use, rural labor supply, incentive schemes, health, and education. The methods covered in the course enable one to analyze the strategic and dynamic decision-making behavior of individuals, households, organizations, firms, and countries; to analyze how different institutions and policies (and changes in these institutions and policies) affect this behavior and its outcome; and to design institutions and policies so that the decision-making behavior and outcome that are realized increase net benefits to society.#
&AEM 7621 | Microeconomics of International Development II&
#This course is an extension of AEM 7620/ECON 7660 and will cover current microeconomic issues of developing countries including but not limited to factors influencing human capital accumulation (e.g. health, education), contracting and firm structure, credit and saving, and behavioral economics and development. Most lectures will begin with applied theory and then discuss leading papers on that topic. The course is also designed with a focus on empirical methods and testing theories with data. Finally, the course contains classes on how to prepare for field work in order to provide a foundation for many of the practical skills needed to move a project forward.#
&AEM 7852 | Sustainable Environment, Energy and Resource Economics Research Seminar&
#The goal of this weekly seminar is to provide a formal and organized venue for PhD students and faculty to interact and discuss research on environmental, energy and resource economics and the economics of sustainability, and to be exposed to the frontier in the area.#
&AEM 7900 | Graduate-Level Thesis Research&
#Thesis research for Ph.D. students only before A" exam has been passed.#
&AEM 8900 | Master's Level Thesis Research&
#Thesis research for master's students.#
&AEM 9900 | Doctoral-Level Thesis Research&
#Thesis research for Ph.D. students only after "A" exam has been passed.#


$AEP | Applied & Engineering Physics$
&AEP 1100 | Lasers and Photonics&
#Lasers have had an enormous impact on communications, medicine, remote sensing, and material processing. This course reviews the properties of light that are essential to understanding the underlying principles of lasers and these photonic technologies. There also is a strong, hands-on laboratory component in which the students build and operate a nitrogen laser and participate in several demonstration experiments such as holography, laser processing of materials, optical tweezers, and fiber optics.#
&AEP 2170 | Physics II: Electricity and Magnetism&
#Second in a three semester introductory physics sequence. Explores quantitative modeling of the physical world through a study of electricity and magnetism. More mathematical and abstract than a typical introductory electricity and magnetism course. Topics include electrostatics, behavior of matter in electric fields, circuits, magnetic fields, Faraday's law, AC circuits, and electromagnetic waves. Makes substantial use of vector calculus. At the level of Electricity and Magnetism by Purcell.#
&AEP 2550 | Engineering Quantum Information Hardware&
#This course examines the physical hardware of quantum information processing, quantum communication, and quantum sensing technologies. Topics include an analysis of qubit attributes and an introduction to the operational principles of physical qubits. Specific systems will include photonic circuits, trapped ions, superconducting quantum circuits, isolated solid-state spins and quantum dots.#
&AEP 3100 | Introductory Quantum Computing&
#An introduction to quantum computing for students who have not necessarily had prior exposure to quantum mechanics. This course is intended for physicists, electrical engineers, and computer scientists. Topics include: foundational algorithmic building blocks and quantum algorithms; variational quantum algorithms (for physics simulation and for combinatorial optimization); quantum machine learning; basic physics of quantum computing hardware implementation. There will be substantial programming exercises implementing quantum algorithms to run on simulators and quantum computers in the cloud.#
&AEP 3200 | Introductory Mathematical Physics&
#Covers review of vector analysis, tensor calculus, Dirac Delta functions, complex variable theory, Cauchy-Rieman conditions, complex Taylor and Laurent series, Cauchy integral formula and residue techniques, conformal mapping, calculus of variations, Fourier Series.#
&AEP 3550 | Intermediate Electromagnetism&
#Intermediate-level course on electromagnetic theory with a focus on statics. Vector calculus, electrostatics, conductors, dielectric materials, boundary conditions, solutions to Laplace's equation, magnetostatics, quasistatic conditions, Maxwell equations, Poynting theorem, Maxwell Stress tensor, EM wave, polarization, energy, momentum. Emphasis is on developing proficiency with analytical techniques and intuitive understanding of fundamental electromagnetism.#
&AEP 3620 | Intermediate Quantum Mechanics&
#Continuation of AEP 3610 covering more advanced material in quantum mechanics. Topics include operator formalism and matrix representation, angular momentum and spin, the hydrogen atom, techniques for solving Schrodinger's equation including perturbation theory, two- and three-level systems, interaction with radiation, and identical particles.#
&AEP 3630 | Electronic Circuits&
#Practical electronics as encountered in a scientific or engineering research/development environment. Analyze, design, build, and test circuits using discrete components and integrated circuits. Analog circuits: resistors, capacitors, operational amplifiers, feedback amplifiers, oscillators, comparators, passive and active filters, diodes, and transistor switches and amplifiers. Digital circuits: combinational and sequential logic (gates, flipflops, registers, counters, timers), analog to digital (ADC) and digital to analog (DAC) conversion, signal averaging, and computer architecture and interfacing. Additional topics may include analog and digital signal processing, light wave communications, transducers, noise reduction techniques, and computer-aided circuit design. At the level of Art of Electronics by Horowitz and Hill.#
&AEP 4340 | Fluid and Continuum Mechanics&
#Intro to elasticity (including stress and strain tensors and their linear relations for isotropic materials), very brief intro to plastic deformation, fluid properties and some hydrostatics, conservation laws with applications (including pipes), dimensional analysis, vorticity, ideal flow (including forms of Bernoulli equations and potential flow), flow past objects (including boundary layers, drag, lift, and model aerofoils), instabilities, a brief introduction to turbulence (including Reynolds stress from time averaging), some topics in compressible flow (including choking and shock waves).#
&AEP 4400 | Nonlinear and Quantum Optics&
#Introduction to the fundamentals of the interaction of laser light with matter, including a survey of phenomena and photonic devices based on these processes with relevance to modern science and technology. Topics include the origins of optical nonlinearities, propagation of laser beams and ultrashort pulses, harmonic generation, parametric amplification, nonlinearly guided waves and self-focusing, solitons, spontaneous and stimulated scattering, optical resonance and two-level atoms, multiphoton processes, and ultra-intense laser-matter interactions.#
&AEP 4450 | Electromagnetic and Optical Metamaterials&
#Introductory Senior-level course on electromagnetic and optical metamaterials. The properties of matter can be molded and tailored on subwavelength spatial scales yielding 'metamaterials' with properties very different from naturally occurring materials, thereby opening up new directions for applications. The course introduces the electromagnetic and optical properties of surface plasmons and polaritons, artificial magnetic materials, negative-index materials, nanostructured optical materials, etc. The course also discusses the applications of these materials in diverse areas including electromagnetic cloaking and invisibility, stealth technologies, optical super-lensing, bio-chemical sensing, conformal optics, meta-surfaces, and non-reciprocal devices.#
&AEP 4840 | Introduction to Controlled Fusion: Principles and Technology&
#Introduction to the physical principles and various engineering aspects underlying power generation by controlled fusion. Topics include: fuels and conditions required for fusion power and basic fusion-reactor concepts, fundamental aspects of plasma physics relevant to fusion plasmas and basic engineering problems for a fusion reactor, and an engineering analysis of proposed magnetic and/or inertial confinement fusion-reactor designs.#
&AEP 4900 | Undergraduate Research in Engineering Physics&
#Laboratory or theoretical work in any branch of engineering physics under the direction of a member of the faculty. The study can take a number of forms; for example, design of laboratory apparatus, performance of laboratory measurements, computer simulation or software developments, theoretical design and analysis. Details TBD with respective faculty member.#
&AEP 4910 | Honors Research in Engineering Physics&
#Laboratory or theoretical work in any branch of engineering physics under the direction of a member of the faculty. The study can take a number of forms; for example, design of laboratory apparatus, performance of laboratory measurements, computer simulation or software developments, theoretical design and analysis. A written report, an oral presentation and at least a grade of A- is required for successful completion of the Engineering Physics honors requirement.#
&AEP 5100 | Introductory Mathematical Physics&
#Covers review of vector analysis, tensor calculus, Dirac Delta functions, complex variable theory, Cauchy-Rieman conditions, complex Taylor and Laurent series, Cauchy integral formula and residue techniques, conformal mapping, calculus of variations, Fourier Series.#
&AEP 5310 | Introductory Quantum Computing&
#An introduction to quantum computing for students who have not necessarily had prior exposure to quantum mechanics. This course is intended for physicists, electrical engineers, and computer scientists. Topics include: foundational algorithmic building blocks and quantum algorithms; variational quantum algorithms (for physics simulation and for combinatorial optimization); quantum machine learning; basic physics of quantum computing hardware implementation. There will be substantial programming exercises implementing quantum algorithms to run on simulators and quantum computers in the cloud.#
&AEP 5340 | Fluid and Continuum Mechanics&
#Intro to elasticity (including stress and strain tensors and their linear relations for isotropic materials), very brief intro to plastic deformation, fluid properties and some hydrostatics, conservation laws with applications (including pipes), dimensional analysis, vorticity, ideal flow (including forms of Bernoulli equations and potential flow), flow past objects (including boundary layers, drag, lift, and model aerofoils), instabilities, a brief introduction to turbulence (including Reynolds stress from time averaging), some topics in compressible flow (including choking and shock waves).#
&AEP 5400 | Nonlinear and Quantum Optics&
#Introduction to the fundamentals of the interaction of laser light with matter, including a survey of phenomena and photonic devices based on these processes with relevance to modern science and technology. Topics include the origins of optical nonlinearities, propagation of laser beams and ultrashort pulses, harmonic generation, parametric amplification, nonlinearly guided waves and self-focusing, solitons, spontaneous and stimulated scattering, optical resonance and two-level atoms, multiphoton processes, and ultra-intense laser-matter interactions.#
&AEP 5510 | Symmetry and Equivariance&
#A self-contained pedagogical introduction to Groups acting-on "things" like sets, modules, vector spaces, manifolds, and other groups, and to the Morphisms and Equivariant Functions between them. The course will intertwine ideas on the Structure of (mostly finite-order) Groups with those on their Representation, making judicious use of Equivalence Relations throughout. In contrast to the usual pedagogy, we will organize the course around the question of "where do groups live in physics." Specific examples will vary from year to year but include: Translational and Rotational Symmetry – Isometry, orbits & stabilizers; gauges, wavefunctions, & boundary conditions – U(1) and its finite-order Cyclic subgroups, Character Theory & the Group Algebra; Bloch & Wannier Functions – Morphisms b/w group actions, Pontryagin Duality; Molecules & Bonding – Point Groups, Permutation& Induced Reps; Selection Rules & Tensors – Irreps & Schur's Lemma; Spin-1/2 and Angular Momentum – Complex Numbers, Quaternions, Projective Spaces, groups acting on n-Spheres & Covers.#
&AEP 5550 | Intermediate Electromagnetism&
#Intermediate-level course on electromagnetic theory with a focus on statics. Vector calculus, electrostatics, conductors, dielectric materials, boundary conditions, solutions to Laplace's equation, magnetostatics, quasistatic conditions, Maxwell equations, Poynting theorem, Maxwell Stress tensor, EM wave, polarization, energy, momentum. Emphasis is on developing proficiency with analytical techniques and intuitive understanding of fundamental electromagnetism.#
&AEP 5620 | Intermediate Quantum Mechanics&
#Continuation of AEP 5610 covering more advanced material in quantum mechanics. Topics include operator formalism and matrix representation, angular momentum and spin, the hydrogen atom, techniques for solving Schrodinger's equation including perturbation theory, two- and three-level systems, interaction with radiation, and identical particles.#
&AEP 7510 | M.Eng. Project&
#Independent study under the direction of a member of the university faculty. Students participate in an independent research project through work on a special problem related to their field of interest. A formal and complete research report is required.#
&AEP 7540 | Special Topics in Applied Physics&
#Special topics in applied science, with focus on areas of applied physics and engineering that are of current interest. Subjects chosen are presented in a seminar format by the students. A major goal of this course is to provide training and experience planning, preparing, and presenting proposals, progress reports, technical talks, and research papers.#


$AIIS | American Indian and Indigenous Studies$
&AIIS 1110 | Indigenous Issues in Global Perspectives&
#This course attends to the contemporary issues, contexts and experiences of Indigenous peoples. Students will develop a substantive understanding of colonialism and engage in the parallels and differences of its histories, forms, and effects on Indigenous peoples globally. Contemporary Indigenous theorists, novelists, visual artists and historians have a prominent place in the course, highlighting sociocultural and environmental philosophies, critical responses to and forms of resistance toward neocolonial political and economic agendas and the fundamental concern for Indigenous self-determination, among other topics. We will not only examine the history of victimization of indigenous peoples through colonial oppression, but we will also study their response as agents of change in providing alternative paradigms and insights to humanity in the third millennium.#
&AIIS 2240 | Native American Languages&
#This course explores the wide variety of languages indigenous to the Americas. There were thousands of languages spoken in the Americas before the arrival of Europeans and hundreds of these languages are still spoken today. We will look at several of these languages in terms of their linguistic structure as well as from social, historical, and political perspectives. No prior linguistic background is required and no previous knowledge of any Native American languages is presumed.#
&AIIS 2660 | Everything You Know About Indians is Wrong: Unlearning Native American History&
#One thing many Americans think they know is their Indians: Pocahontas, the First Thanksgiving, fighting cowboys, reservation poverty, and casino riches. Under our very noses, however, Native American history has evolved into one of the most exciting, dynamic, and contentious fields of inquiry into America's past. It is now safer to assume, as Comanche historian Paul Chaat Smith has pointed out, that everything you know about Indians is in fact wrong. Most people have much to "unlearn" about Native American history before true learning can take place. This course aims to achieve that end by (re)introducing students to key themes and trends in the history of North America's indigenous nations. Employing an issues-oriented approach, the course stresses the ongoing complexity of Native American societies' engagements with varieties of settler colonialism since 1492 and dedicates itself to a concerted program of myth-busting. As such, the course will provide numerous opportunities for students to develop their critical thinking and reading skills.#
&AIIS 2720 | From the Swampy Land: Indigenous People of the Ithaca Area&
#Who lived in the Ithaca area before American settlers and Cornell arrived? Where do these indigenous peoples reside today? This class explores the history and culture of the Gayogoho:no (Cayuga), which means people from the mucky land. We will read perspectives by indigenous authors, as well as archaeologists and historians, about past and current events, try to understand reasons why that history has been fragmented and distorted by more recent settlers, and delve into primary sources documenting encounters between settlers and the Gayogoho:no. We will also strive to understand the ongoing connections of the Gayogoho:no to this region despite forced dispossession and several centuries of colonialist exclusion from these lands and waters.#
&AIIS 3325 | Cayuga Language and Culture II&
#A continuation of LING 3324, with further exploration of Cayuga (Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫʼ) language and culture. Language instruction continues in an immersive learning environment with a focus on plants and growing in the spring.#
&AIIS 3500 | Gaza, Indigeneity, Resistance&
#The first half of the course will be devoted to situating Indigenous peoples, of which there are 350,000 globally, in an international context, where we will examine the proposition that Indigenous people are involved historically in a global war against an ongoing colonialism. The second half will present a specific case of this war: settler colonialism in Palestine/Israel with a particular emphasis on what the International Court of Justice (ICJ) has termed a "plausible genocide" in Gaza.#
&AIIS 4000 | Critical Approaches to American Indian and Indigenous Studies: Intellectual History&
#An interdisciplinary survey of the literature in Native American Studies. Readings engage themes of indigeneity, coloniality, power, and "resistance." The syllabus is formed from some "classic" and canonical works in Native American Studies but also requires an engagement with marginal writings and theoretical and historical contributions from scholars in other disciplines.#
&AIIS 4670 | The Indigenous Poetry of Resistance&
#In this course, we will read poems of resistance from Indigenous people in Turtle Island (North America), Palestine, and Guåhan (Guam). Our purpose will be to understand how this poetry is both a description and an act of resistance to settler colonialism and to compare the forms resistance takes in these different settler locals.#
&AIIS 4970 | Independent Study&
#Topic and credit hours TBA between faculty member and student.#
&AIIS 6000 | Critical Approaches to American Indian and Indigenous Studies: Intellectual History&
#An interdisciplinary survey of the literature in Native American Studies. Readings engage themes of indigeneity, coloniality, power, and "resistance." The syllabus is formed from some "classic" and canonical works in Native American Studies but also requires an engagement with marginal writings and theoretical and historical contributions from scholars in other disciplines.#
&AIIS 6240 | Native American Languages&
#This course explores the wide variety of languages indigenous to the Americas. There were thousands of languages spoken in the Americas before the arrival of Europeans and hundreds of these languages are still spoken today. We will look at several of these languages in terms of their linguistic structure as well as from social, historical, and political perspectives. No prior linguistic background is required and no previous knowledge of any Native American languages is presumed.#
&AIIS 6970 | Independent Study in American Indian and Indigenous Studies&
#A student may, with approval of a faculty advisor, study a problem or topic not covered in a regular course or may undertake tutorial study of an independent nature in an area of interest in American Indian and Indigenous Studies.#


$AIRS | Aerospace Studies$
&AIRS 1102 | Heritage and Values of the United States Air Force II&
#Continuation of AIRS 1101. This is a survey course designed to introduce students to the Department of the Air Force  (DAF) and provides an overview of the basic characteristics, missions, and organization of the Air and Space Forces.#
&AIRS 1142 | Initial Military Experiences II&
#Continuation of AIRS 1141.#
&AIRS 2202 | Team and Leadership Fundamentals II&
#Continuation of AIRS 2201. This course focuses on laying the foundation for teams and leadership. The topics include skills that will allow cadets to improve their leadership on a personal level and within a team. The courses will prepare cadets for their field training experience where they will be able to put the concepts learned into practice. The purpose is to instill a leadership mindset and to motivate sophomore students to transition from AFROTC cadet to AFROTC officer candidate.#
&AIRS 2242 | Intermediate Military Experiences II&
#Continuation of AIRS 2241.#
&AIRS 3302 | Leading People and Effective Communication II&
#Continuation of AIRS 3301. This course teaches cadets advanced skills and knowledge in management and leadership. Special emphasis is placed on enhancing leadership skills and communication. Cadets have an opportunity to try out these leadership and management techniques in a supervised environment as juniors and seniors.#
&AIRS 3342 | Junior Officer Leadership Experiences II&
#Continuation of AIRS 3341.#
&AIRS 4441 | Advanced Leadership Experiences&
#Cadets assume command leadership responsibilities to operate a military organization. Cadets apply effective leadership and managerial techniques with individuals and groups and participate in self-analysis of leadership and managerial abilities.#
&AIRS 4442 | Precommissioning Laboratory&
#Factors that facilitate transition from civilian to military life are reviewed. The need for military security, base services and activities, personal finances, travel regulations, and social obligations are introduced.#


$ALS | Agriculture & Life Sciences$
&ALS 1100 | Veteran's Seminar&
#Many Veterans experience challenges when transitioning from the military to civilian life, and from a community college to Cornell University. The seemingly disconnected and unstructured environment of a large, Ivy League university can further exacerbate these challenges and result in student Veterans not taking advantage of all the opportunities available to them in college. ALS 1100 is a seminar that aims to assist Veteran students during the transition from military service or smaller college experience to collegiate life at Cornell and later, a civilian career. Students will engage in experiential learning opportunities, reflections, excursions, discussions, and seminars aimed at helping them explore their transition to Cornell, academic opportunities and various available resources on campus and in the local community.#
&ALS 1200 | Information Chaos: Navigating Today's Information Landscape&
#In 1987, a weekday edition of the New York Times contained more information than the average person was likely to encounter in a lifetime in seventeenth-century England. Now more than 30 years later, it is hard to imagine how much more information we encounter in our daily lives. Access to quality information is at the heart of an informed and engaged citizenry, yet as more information floods the information landscape, worrisome information also spreads. What makes information worrisome? What makes it valuable? This course includes the theoretical, methodological and practical concepts and skills needed to understand and evaluate today's vast information landscape. The course will focus primarily on information systems in the U.S., although several prominent examples of international information systems will also be included.#
&ALS 2400 | Developing a Reflective Tutoring Practice&
#This course provides tutors with an opportunity to reflect on and refine their own tutoring practice, in the context of literature and theory about peer teaching and learning in an inclusive environment. Participants complete readings, participate in group discussions with hands-on practice and role-playing, conduct peer observations and debrief about those observations, and practice reflective journaling. Most sessions include discussion or sharing of e-Portfolios. Topics discussed in class include developing an active, student-centered tutoring practice, fostering a growth mindset and enhancing resilience in tutors and tutees, managing the unexpected, problem-solving, leading groups, and communicating productively across difference.#
&ALS 3920 | New York State Government Affairs&
#This course is part of the Brooks School Capital Semester Program. During this program, students live and work in Albany as legislative aides to a New York State Senator or Assembly Member. They also attend a course on New York State Government and engage in discussion forums with key legislators and policymakers. Additionally, students receive mentorship from Cornell Government Affairs staff on-site. This mentorship includes opportunities to work on legislative priorities that align with students' interests and their assigned legislative tasks. The on-site staff help interns connect with state government officials in their areas of interest, including Cornell alumni and dignitaries. They also offer guidance on office work and internship coursework and provide background information on Albany's policies and politics, particularly related to higher education and Cornell's role as a New York State Land Grant University. Students receive a relocation allowance and a living stipend as part of the program.#
&ALS 4100 | Community-Based Research in DC&
#In this experiential, community-based research course, Cornell in Washington program participants will design, implement, evaluate, and reflect on a semester-long community engaged research and service-learning project with an established community partner. Students will receive training and grounding in community-based research theory and practice as well as reflective learning skills. Early in the semester, students will chose from a few optional projects that they will then further co-develop with the community partner, creating clearly defined project deliverables that they will carry out through the semester. The course will meet weekly for seminar instruction to ground students' work, and then students will develop their research products and timelines, committing to 50 hours of work with the community partner.#
&ALS 4200 | Immersion and Engagement in DC&
#In this community engaged course, Cornell in Washington program participants will explore and deepen their understanding of their experiences living and working in D.C. The course will ground students' knowledge in critical social theory, place-based learning theory, and explorations of contemporary issues facing D.C. Students will also learn critical reflection techniques to further develop their knowledge and experiences while in the program. The course will consist of weekly class meetings, discussions, guest speakers, and field engagement activities.#
&ALS 4960 | Internship in Agriculture and Life Sciences&
#All 4960 internship courses must adhere to the CALS guidelines at cals.cornell.edu/academics/student-research/internship. Students planning internships related to the discipline of a department are encouraged to enroll in the departmental internship course.#
&ALS 4970 | Independent Study in Agriculture and Life Sciences&
#Independent study for undergraduate students.#
&ALS 4980 | Undergraduate Teaching Assistant&
#Students learn and experience assisting in a course under the direction of a course instructor.#
&ALS 4990 | Undergraduate Research in Agriculture and Life Sciences&
#Independent research for undergraduate students.#
&ALS 5211 | Career Readiness: Engaged Learning for CALS Professional Master's Students&
#This course will provide CALS professional master's students with career readiness, an integral part of achieving success upon degree completion. Career readiness can be defined as the attainment and demonstration of competencies that broadly prepare graduates for a successful career transition. This course will be taught with the Engaged Learning framework, which will give students the opportunity to integrate professional development skills into career and life experiences. Students will engage in interactive sessions covering various topics crucial to career readiness, including goal-setting strategies, networking techniques, strengths identification, application materials preparation, interviewing tactics, and negotiation skills. Additionally, students will participate in mock interviews and information interviews to refine their communication skills. Throughout the course, students will have opportunities to network with alumni, faculty, and industry professionals, fostering mutually beneficial relationships that can enhance their career prospects. By actively participating in this course and utilizing the resources provided, student will develop the confidence and readiness to navigate the complexities of the job market and embark on successful career paths.#
&ALS 5780 | International Teaching Assistant Program Course&
#The International Teaching Assistant Program's (ITAP) foundational course, ALS 5780, provides an opportunity for multilingual graduate students to develop the oral communication skills necessary to be successful in their graduate programs, with emphasis on the skills they may need for teaching in the Cornell classroom. Through weekly classes, conferences with instructors, peer feedback and weekly assignments, students will work on advancing their oral English comprehensibility, pronunciation accuracy and improve their impromptu speaking skills. This course is designed for those working towards meeting the Language Proficiency requirement for teaching at Cornell University.#
&ALS 5790 | International Teaching Assistant Development Program Course II&
#The International Teaching Assistant Program (ITAP) supports all multilingual graduate students who are currently teaching or plan to teach in the future. Designed as a follow-up to ITAP's foundational course, this course involves highly interactive seminars, consultations with the instructor, and the development of a personalized set of language priorities to help students expand their spoken English proficiency.#
&ALS 5800 | International Teaching Assistant Program: Directed Study&
#The International Teaching Assistant Program's Directed Study course, ALS 5800, is designed for multilingual graduate students working toward meeting the Language Proficiency requirement for teaching at Cornell University. Through regular interaction with the instructor, participants will set goals and develop a personal plan of study to advance their English oral communication skills.#
&ALS 5900 | Project Development: CALS Professional Master's Programs&
#This course is the first in a sequence of two courses: ALS 5900, ALS 5910. Professional Master's students enrolled in this course will work with their advisor on the initial development of a final project to fulfill the requirements of their degree. This project may be an action program, the development of a plan to address a pertinent problem, the development of materials or methodology suited to the student's situation, or the development and execution of research appropriate to the profession. The project highlights the integration of coursework and skills acquired during the degree program.#
&ALS 5910 | Project Completion: CALS Professional Master's Programs&
#This course is the last in a sequence of two courses: ALS 5900, ALS 5910. Professional Master's students enrolled in this course will work with their advisor to finalize a project in fulfillment of the requirements of their degree. The student will analyze and summarize the results of their work. The successful completion of this course indicates the degree project has been finished, reviewed, and approved by the student's field.#
&ALS 6015 | The Practice of Teaching in Higher Education&
#This course will help you design and facilitate excellent learning experiences for students at the college level. You will be invited to choose a course that you might teach in the future and design elements of this course based on principles and research about how people learn best. Our meetings will be highly interactive with opportunities to practice teaching strategies and offer each other feedback.#


$AMST | American Studies$
&AMST 1101 | Introduction to American Studies&
#This course is an introduction to interdisciplinary considerations of American culture. Specific topics may change from year to year and may include questions of national consensus versus native, immigrant and racial subcultures and countercultures; industrialization and the struggles over labor; the rise of leisure; the transformation of (the frequently gendered) public and private spheres; the relationship between politics and culture; the development and distinctions among consumer culture, mass culture and popular culture. These themes will be examined through a variety of media, such as literature, historical writing, music, art, film, architecture, etc. The course will also give attention to the many methods through which scholars have, over time, developed the discipline of American Studies.#
&AMST 1312 | History of Rock Music&
#This course examines the development and cultural significance of rock music from its origins in blues, gospel, and Tin Pan Alley up to alternative rock and hip hop. The course concludes with the year 2000.#
&AMST 1500 | Introduction to Africana Studies&
#At the inception of this department at Cornell University in 1969, the Africana Studies and Research Center became the birthplace of the field "Africana studies." Africana studies emphasizes comparative and interdisciplinary studies of Africa, the U.S., the Caribbean and other diasporas. In this course, we will look at the diverse contours of the discipline. We will explore contexts ranging from modernity and the Trans-Atlantic slave trade and plantation complex in the New World to processes of decolonization and globalization in the contemporary digital age. This course offers an introduction to the study of Africa, the U.S., the Caribbean and other diasporas. This course will examine, through a range of disciplines, among them literature, history, politics, philosophy, the themes - including race/racism, the Middle Passage, sexuality, colonialism, and culture - that have dominated Africana Studies since its inception in the late-1960s. We will explore these issues in an attempt to understand how black lives have been shaped in a historical sense; and, of course, the effects of these issues in the contemporary moment. This course seeks to introduce these themes, investigate through one or more of the disciplines relevant to the question, and provide a broad understanding of the themes so as to enable the kind of intellectual reflection critical to Africana Studies.#
&AMST 1601 | Indigenous Issues in Global Perspectives&
#This course attends to the contemporary issues, contexts and experiences of Indigenous peoples. Students will develop a substantive understanding of colonialism and engage in the parallels and differences of its histories, forms, and effects on Indigenous peoples globally. Contemporary Indigenous theorists, novelists, visual artists and historians have a prominent place in the course, highlighting sociocultural and environmental philosophies, critical responses to and forms of resistance toward neocolonial political and economic agendas and the fundamental concern for Indigenous self-determination, among other topics. We will not only examine the history of victimization of indigenous peoples through colonial oppression, but we will also study their response as agents of change in providing alternative paradigms and insights to humanity in the third millennium.#
&AMST 2000 | Introduction to Visual Studies&
#This course provides an introduction to modes of vision and the historical impact of visual images, visual structures, and visual space on culture, communication, and politics. It examines all aspects of culture that communicate through visual means, including 20th-century visual technologies—photography, cinema, video, etc., and their historical corollaries. The production and consumption of images, objects, and events is studied in diverse cultures. Students develop the critical skills necessary to appreciate how the approaches that define visual studies complicate traditional models of defining and analyzing art objects.#
&AMST 2001 | The First American University&
#Educational historian Frederick Rudolph called Cornell University "the first American university," referring to its unique role as a coeducational, nonsectarian, land-grant institution with a broad curriculum and diverse student body. In this course, we will explore the history of Cornell, taking as our focus the pledge of Ezra Cornell and Andrew Dickson White to found a university where "any person can find instruction in any study." The course will cover a wide range of topics and perspectives relating to the faculty, student body, evolution of campus, and important events and eras in Cornell history. Stories and vignettes will provide background on the current university and its administrative structure, campus traditions, and the names that adorn buildings and memorials throughout campus. Finally, the course will offer a forum for students to address questions on present-day aspects of the university.#
&AMST 2043 | Asian American Oral History&
#This seminar will explore Asian American history through the methodology of oral history. Students will read Asian American historical scholarship that has relied on oral history methods, but they will also engage with theoretical and methodological work around the use of oral sources. Students will develop, research, and present oral history projects.  Themes include power and knowledge production, the role of oral history in documenting the Asian American past, and local and family histories as avenues through which to explore oral history methods.#
&AMST 2152 | (Im)migration and (Im)migrants: Then and Now&
#How are migration dynamics produced? How do states and communities respond to and shape complex migration processes? This course will draw on the United States as a case study, focusing on Latino immigrants. Latinos are by far the largest immigrant group in the U.S., representing about 50% of all immigrants. Additionally, the U.S. has historically received the largest number of immigrants in the world. The class will examine the main debates around migration in fields such as Latino studies, migration studies, and political science. We begin with a historical and contemporary survey of global and regional migration trends. Next, we will review theories explaining why people migrate and how countries manage migration processes. We then focus on the U.S. immigration apparatus, examining past and present changes, including migration public policies. Central to this class is the exploration of multiple systems of marginalization that shape the opportunities, material conditions, and lived experiences of immigrants in the U.S. We conclude with an exploration of historical and contemporary migrant-led forms of resistance, such as the Immigrant Rights Movement, and its linkages to other transnational struggles for social justice.#
&AMST 2212 | The U.S. Empire&
#What is the American empire? Is empire even the right word to describe U.S. power in the world today or in the past? If so, is the American empire formal or informal, and is the United States a reluctant superpower or a belligerent hegemon? When did the empire begin? And is it in decline today? In addressing these questions, this seminar will offer an in-depth look at key moments in the history of the United States and its foreign relations, ranging from the American revolutionary war and historians' debates about the founders' thinking in relation to empire; the "imperial moment" of 1898, when the United States acquired overseas colonies for the first time; the beginnings of the national security state in 1917 with the entry of the United States into the First World War; the "American Century", or the post-World War II years when the United States was the most powerful nation in the world; and the era of unipolarity after the end of the Cold War and which culminated in the Wars on Terror. Throughout, we will draw upon primary and secondary sources to examine the ideas and practices which have shaped U.S. foreign relations, including continental expansion, the frontier, imperial anticolonialism, the open door, covert operations, extraordinary rendition, police action, and more. Taking both a chronological and thematic approach, this class offers an examination of the past in order to understand some of the key issues facing the United States, and the world, today.#
&AMST 2315 | The Occupation of Japan&
#In August 1945, Japan was a devastated country; its cities burned, its people starving, its military and government in surrender. World War II was over. The occupation had begun. What sort of society emerged from the cooperation and conflict between occupiers and occupied? Students will examine sources ranging from declassified government documents to excerpts from diaries and bawdy fiction, alongside major scholarly studies, to find out. The first half of the course focuses on key issues in Japanese history, like the fate of the emperor, constitutional revision, and the emancipation of women. The second half zooms out for a wider perspective, for the occupation of Japan was never merely a local event. It was the collapse of Japanese empire and the rise of American empire in Asia. It was decolonization in Korea and the start of the Cold War. Students will further investigate these links in final individual research projects.#
&AMST 2330 | Literature and Medicine&
#How does literary language depict the experience of physical suffering? Can a poem or a novel palliate pain, illness, even the possibility of death? From darkly comic narratives of black plague to the rise and fall of hysteria to depictions of the AIDS crisis, this course examines literature centered on medical practices from the early modern period through the twentieth century. Why have medical practices changed, and how do writers address their political, social, and ideological implications? Readings will include a broad range of genres, including poetry (Dickinson, Whitman, Keats), fiction (McEwan, Chekhov, Gilman, Kafka, Camus), theater (Kushner), nonfiction prose (Woolf, Freud), and critical theory (Foucault, Scarry, Canguilhem, Sontag).#
&AMST 2381 | Corruption, Collusion, and Commerce in Early America and the Caribbean&
#Corruption in politics and economics has become a significant issue in the modern world. This course introduces students to the study of corruption and collusion from the perspective of early America and the Caribbean from 1500 through 1800. By examining the historical evolution of corruption, the course addresses questions such as: What is corruption and, by contrast, what is good governance? Who creates law and when is it enforced? Can societies be corrupt or only institutions? And, does economic corruption help or hurt financial development? Our readings and discussion will examine the intersection of politics, culture, gender, and economics. We will reflect on how early Americans understood corruption and collusion and what that can tell us about similar modern issues. In the end, the course focuses on the concept of corruption as a complex social function through the lens of bribery, piracy, sex crimes, and other forms of social deviancy.#
&AMST 2392 | Where Fire Meets Ice: Histories of the U.S.-Canada Border Across Four Centuries&
#The international boundary between Canada and the United is the longest, straightest border in the world. Although frequently cast as "boring" in juxtaposition to its southern counterpart, this viewpoint overlooks the U.S.-Canada border's longstanding history as a site and engine of trans-national tensions and controversies. This course addresses the complex histories of the 3,500 mile boundary separating the United States from Canada from its eighteenth century colonial antecedents to contemporary challenges related to drug smuggling, border fence construction, pandemic-related travel restrictions, immigration, commerce, environmental issues, Indigenous peoples' rights, and national identity construction. The instructor, a dual citizen of Canada and the United States, brings not only life experience of border-crossing, but also a recent background in legal testimony on border-related issues.#
&AMST 2581 | Environmental History&
#This lecture course serves as an introduction to the historical study of humanity's interrelationship with the natural world. Environmental history is a quickly evolving field, taking on increasing importance as the environment itself becomes increasingly important in world affairs. During this semester, we'll examine the sometimes unexpected ways in which "natural" forces have shaped human history (the role of germs, for instance, in the colonization of North America); the ways in which human beings have shaped the natural world (through agriculture, urbanization, and industrialization, as well as the formation of things like wildlife preserves); and the ways in which cultural, scientific, political, and philosophical attitudes toward the environment have changed over time. This is designed as an intensely interdisciplinary course: we'll view history through the lenses of ecology, literature, art, film, law, anthropology, and geography. Our focus will be on the United States, but, just as environmental pollutants cross borders, so too will this class, especially toward the end, when we attempt to put U.S. environmental history into a geopolitical context. This course is meant to be open to all, including non-majors and first-year students.#
&AMST 2660 | Everything You Know About Indians is Wrong: Unlearning Native American History&
#One thing many Americans think they know is their Indians: Pocahontas, the First Thanksgiving, fighting cowboys, reservation poverty, and casino riches. Under our very noses, however, Native American history has evolved into one of the most exciting, dynamic, and contentious fields of inquiry into America's past. It is now safer to assume, as Comanche historian Paul Chaat Smith has pointed out, that everything you know about Indians is in fact wrong. Most people have much to "unlearn" about Native American history before true learning can take place. This course aims to achieve that end by (re)introducing students to key themes and trends in the history of North America's indigenous nations. Employing an issues-oriented approach, the course stresses the ongoing complexity of Native American societies' engagements with varieties of settler colonialism since 1492 and dedicates itself to a concerted program of myth-busting. As such, the course will provide numerous opportunities for students to develop their critical thinking and reading skills.#
&AMST 2690 | American Poetry Since 1850&
#This course introduces students to major American poets from the mid-nineteenth century to the present. It is designed for anyone wanting to deepen their knowledge of and appreciation for poetry while also addressing its relationship to modern American social and cultural history. It addresses questions about what poetry is for, why it is often "difficult," how it is related to language-play as a basic human drive that engages with personal anxieties, bodily rhythms, social and existential tensions, and the riddles of existence. Another through-line of this course is the relationship of poetry to democracy in the United States.#
&AMST 2710 | US Education System: Courts, Data, Law and Politics&
#This course aims to explore and answer a single question about America's promise-of success if you work hard and do well in school: Why do we have such substantial and long-standing inequality in the U.S.? In answering this central question, we will investigate the goals, roles, and outcomes of formal educational institutions in American society and the legal and policy environment in which they operate. Specifically, we will review historical state and federal policy, trace the $700 million spent, and interrogate the sociological functions of public and private K12 schools, including the successes, failures, and enigmas of school organization and policy at the local, state, and national level.#
&AMST 2729 | From the Swampy Land: Indigenous People of the Ithaca Area&
#Who lived in the Ithaca area before American settlers and Cornell arrived? Where do these indigenous peoples reside today? This class explores the history and culture of the Gayogoho:no (Cayuga), which means people from the mucky land. We will read perspectives by indigenous authors, as well as archaeologists and historians, about past and current events, try to understand reasons why that history has been fragmented and distorted by more recent settlers, and delve into primary sources documenting encounters between settlers and the Gayogoho:no. We will also strive to understand the ongoing connections of the Gayogoho:no to this region despite forced dispossession and several centuries of colonialist exclusion from these lands and waters.#
&AMST 2735 | Children's Literature&
#An historical study of children's literature from the 17th century to the present, principally in Europe and America, which will explore changing literary forms in relation to the social history of childhood. Ranging from oral folktale to contemporary novelistic realism (with some glances at film narrative), major figures may include Perrault, Newbery, the Grimms, Andersen, Carroll, Alcott, Stevenson, Burnett, Kipling, the Disney studio, E. B. White, C. S. Lewis, Sendak, Silverstein, Mildred Taylor, and Bette Greene. We'll also encounter a variety of critical models—psychoanalytic, materialist, feminist, structuralist—that scholars have employed to explain the variety and importance of children's literature. Finally, we will consider how the idea of "the child" has evolved over this period.#
&AMST 2775 | The North American West&
#In this course, we will learn about the history of the West. We will deconstruct popular myths about the West, as we engage with the major themes and significant debates that define the historical scholarship. This course will begin with Native origin stories and end with the 20th century. As a class, we will study the west from a multitude of perspectives, such as race, gender, and ethnicity, the environment, labor, politics and culture. This course is designed to increase our knowledge of the social, political and intellectual developments that have shaped our understanding of the West.#
&AMST 2790 | Jewish Films and Filmmakers: Hollywood and Beyond&
#What does it mean to call a film is "Jewish"? Does it have to represent Jewish life? Does it have to feature characters identifiable as Jews? If artists who identify as Jews—actors, directors, screenwriters, composers—play significant roles in a film's production does that make it Jewish? Our primary point of entry into these questions will be Hollywood, from the industry's early silent films, through the period generally considered classical, down to the present day. We will also study films produced overseas, in countries that may include Israel, Egypt, France, Italy, and Germany. Our discussions will be enriched by contextual material drawn from film studies, cultural studies, Jewish studies, American studies, and other related fields. Students will be expected to view a significant number of films outside of class—an average of one per week—and engage with them through writing and in-class discussion. The directors, screenwriters, composers, and actors whose work we will study may include: Charlie Chaplin, Irving Berlin, Al Jolson, Fanny Brice, Billy Wilder, Barbra Streisand, Woody Allen, Mel Brooks, Aviva Kempner, Joan Micklin Silver, the Marx Brothers, and the Coen Brothers.#
&AMST 3024 | Being Native in the 21st Century: American Indian and Alaska Native Politics, History, and Policy&
#The course examines the historical political landscape of American Indians and Alaska Natives in the United States and the interplay between tribal interests, politics, and the federal government. The course also looks at contemporary Native issues, federal policy and programs, tribal governance, relations between Tribal Nations and states and between Tribal Nations and the federal government. Finally, the course will explore Indigenous pop-culture and its influence on federal policy.#
&AMST 3025 | Asian Americans and Popular Culture&
#This course examines both mainstream representations of and independent media made by, for, and about Asians and Asian Americans throughout U.S. cultural history. In this course, we will analyze popular cultural genres & forms such as: documentary & narrative films, musical theatre & live performance revues, television, zines & blogs, YouTube/online performances, karaoke & cover performances, stand-up comedy, and popular music. Employing theories of cultural studies, media studies, and performance studies, we will discuss the cultural, discursive, and political impact of these various popular cultural forms and representations from the turn of the 20th century to the present.#
&AMST 3112 | Congress and the Legislative Process&
#The course will be a lecture course on Congress, introducing them to the political science literature on the topic and the major research questions and approaches. We will examine the development of the institution, including formal theories for congressional organization as well as historically and politically oriented accounts of rule changes, committee power, and party influence. We will also look at the determinants of legislative productivity and gridlock, approaches to measuring and analyzing congressional behavior, the changing role of the electoral connection, and the causes and consequences of polarization.#
&AMST 3131 | The Nature, Functions, and Limits of Law&
#A general-education course to acquaint students with how our legal system pursues the goals of society. The course introduces students to various perspectives on the nature of law, what functions it ought to serve in society, and what it can and cannot accomplish. The course proceeds in the belief that such matters constitute a valuable and necessary part of a general education, not only for pre-law students but especially for students in other fields. Assigned readings comprise legal materials and also secondary sources on the legal process and the role of law in society. The classes include discussion and debate about current legal and social issues, including equality, safety, the environment, punishment, and autonomy.#
&AMST 3334 | Black Body Politics: Histories, Theories, and Debates&
#The body has been crucially important to Black liberation politics. Not only has it been a site of contestation and control, but it has also served as a productive site of protest, alliance, and collective action, in ways both real and imagined. This course explores the historical debates and theories surrounding the body with a particular focus on how blackness informs bodily meanings and negotiations across the African diaspora. Weekly topics will allow students to consider the metaphorical and material dimensions of the body while also interrogating the very concept of embodiment, the ways in which individual bodies are constituted and reconstituted over time.#
&AMST 3370 | American Theatre on Stage and Screen II (1960-Present)&
#How has theatre shaped our notion of America and Americans in the second half of the 20th century and beyond?  What role has politics played in the theatre?  How has performance been used to examine concepts of identity, community, and nationality?  And how and why have certain plays in this era been translated to the screen? In this course we will examine major trends in the American theatre from 1960 to the present.  We will focus on theatre that responds directly to moments of social turmoil, including: the Vietnam and Iraq Wars, the Civil Rights and Black Lives Matter Movements, Women's and Gender Equality Movements, and the AIDS epidemic. We will also explore the tensions between Broadway and alternative theatre production.#
&AMST 3405 | Multicultural Issues in Education&
#This course explores research on race, ethnicity and language in American education. It examines historical and current patterns of school achievement for minoritized youths. It also examines the cultural and social premises undergirding educational practices in diverse communities and schools. Policies, programs and pedagogy, including multicultural and bilingual education, are explored.#
&AMST 3430 | History of the U.S. Civil War and Reconstruction&
#A survey of the turning point of US. history: The Civil War (1861-1865) and its aftermath, Reconstruction (1865-1877). We will look at the causes, the coming, and the conduct, of the war, and the way in which it became a war for freedom. We will then follow the cause of freedom through the greatest slave rebellion in American history, and the attempts by formerly enslaved people to make freedom real in Reconstruction. And we will see how Reconstruction's tragic ending left questions open that are still not answered in U.S. society and politics.#
&AMST 3442 | Merchants, Whalers, Pirates, Sailors: Early American Sea-faring Literature&
#This course will look at how literature based at sea helps both shape and challenge concepts of freedom and capital. By looking at the relationship between the sea-faring economy and its relationship to American Expansion and the history of enslavement we will explore how literature based at sea provided both a reflection and an alternate reality to land-based politics. While the main focus of the course will be nineteenth-century literature, we will also be exploring maritime literature of the twentieth and twenty-first centuries and its analogues in speculative fiction.#
&AMST 3565 | Black Ecoliterature&
#Mainstream media would have us believe that driving a new Toyota Prius, recycling, and shopping "clean" at Whole Foods would make us all food environmentalists, right? Additionally, climate change and environmental degradation are often discussed as if they are phenomena that affect us all equally. Despite these dynamics, research in recent years tells us that while there might be some general ways that we experience our constantly changing physical environments—race, gender, and location very much affect how we experience "Nature." In this course we will use literature from across the African diaspora to investigate how looking at race, gender, and location produces very different ideas about environment, environmentalism, and "Nature" itself.#
&AMST 3590 | The Black Radical Tradition in the U.S.&
#This course provides a critical historical interrogation of what Black Marxism author Cedric Robinson called "the Black Radical Tradition." It will introduce students to some of the major currents in the history of black radical thought, action, and organizing, with an emphasis on the United States after World War I. It relies on social, political, and intellectual history to examine the efforts of black people who have sought not merely social reform, but a fundamental restructuring of political, economic, and social relations. We will define and evaluate radicalism in the shifting contexts of liberation struggles. We will explore dissenting visions of social organization and alternative definitions of citizenship, progress, and freedom. We will confront the meaning of the intersection of race, gender, class, and sexuality in social movements.#
&AMST 3602 | Cultural History of North America&
#This course examines the history of culture in North America from the pre-contact era to present. We will examine how Native, African, European, Asian, and Latino/a influences, along with colonization, immigration, urbanization, industrialization, and consumerization, reshaped the development of American culture, including its architecture, literature, music, visual art, and practices of religion, leisure, and consumption. We will also gain a basic familiarity with the theory and methods of cultural history. Intended for upper-division undergraduate students, the course provides practice in the analysis of historical sources, historiography, and written and oral expression.#
&AMST 3617 | Cornell Hip-Hop Collective&
#This course is open to experienced rappers, beatmakers, and vocalists interested forging collaborative relationships with other students. Taking as a foundation hip-hop's relationship to social justice, each semester we will work together to plan and record an EP on a theme or keyword chosen as a group. We will construct and analyze playlists of inspirational material, identifying specific hip-hop compositional strategies for creating beats and rhymes on a theme, and will use these tools to create and workshop our own collaborative tracks in weekly meetings. Please contact the instructor to audition.#
&AMST 3715 | Colonialism and Anticolonialism&
#This seminar overviews political theories of colonialism and empire, and in doing so, allows us to pose questions about the constitutive elements of our modernity, such as slavery, racism, dependency, and dispossession.  Throughout the semester, we will examine the relationship between former colonies and political and economic configurations (nationalism, internationalism, capitalism, socialism), as well as philosophical and epistemological questions about the relationship between the universal and the particular, and the imperatives of history-writing.  The course material will give us an opportunity to conclude with questions about whether or not the process of decolonizing our world and our study of it is complete or an ongoing project.#
&AMST 3764 | Law and Literature&
#What can lawyers and judges learn from the study of literature? This course explores the relevance of imaginative literature (novels, drama, poetry, and film) to questions of law and social justice from a range of perspectives. We will consider debates about how literature can help to humanize legal decision-making; how storytelling has helped to give voice to oppressed populations over history; how narratives of suffering cultivate popular support for human rights; the role played by storytelling in a trial; and how literature can shed light on the limits of law and public policy.#
&AMST 3820 | Poetry and Poetics of the Americas&
#As globalization draws the Americas ever closer together, reshaping our sense of a common and uncommon American culture, what claims might be made for a distinctive, diverse poetry and poetics of the Americas? How might we characterize its dominant forms and alternative practices? What shared influences, affiliations, concerns and approaches might we find and what convergences and differences emerge? Ranging across North and South America, Central America and the Caribbean, this course will place in conversation such figures as Poe, Pound, Stein, Williams, Neruda, Vallejo, Borges, Parra, Bolaño, Césaire, Nourbese Philip, Hong, Long Soldier, Rankine, Lamar, Kaminsky, and Xie.#
&AMST 3831 | War and Revolution in 20th Century Latino History&
#This course examines war and revolution as drivers of migration from Latin America and the Spanish Caribbean to the United States and Canada. From the War of 1898 to the wars in Central America, war and revolution have displaced millions of people, prompting internal and cross-border migration. This history underscores how migration is multicausal—that is, produced by a wide and complex range of intersecting drivers. War and revolution disrupt livelihoods, produce scarcity, and create the insecurity that makes it impossible to exercise a basic human right to stay home. The course also examines how Latinos have become actors in U.S. wars and interventions in their countries of ancestry.#
&AMST 3885 | Race and War in History: Workers, Soldiers, Prisoners, Activists&
#Across twentieth-century history, race and war have been dynamic forces in shaping economic organization and everyday livelihoods. This course will approach labor and working-class history, through a focus on global war as well as 'wars at home.' Racial and warfare events often intersect—in the histories of presidents and activists, business leaders and industrial workers, CIA agents and police, soldiers and prisoners, American laborers abroad and non-Americans migrating stateside. In this course, we'll consider how race and war have been linked—from the rise of Jim Crow and U.S. empire in the 1890s, to the WWII 'Greatest Generation' and its diverse workplaces, to Vietnam and the civil rights movement, to the Iraq wars and immigrant workers, to debates about what has been called a 'military-industrial complex' and a 'prison-industrial complex'.#
&AMST 3911 | Science in American Politics&
#This course reviews the changing relations between science, technology, and the state in America, focusing on the period from 1960 to the present. We will explore science-intensive policy controversies. We will also look at how science and technology are used in different institutional settings, such as Congress, the court system, and regulatory agencies. Among other issues, we will examine the tension between the concept of science as an autonomous system for producing knowledge and the concept of science as entangled with interest groups.#
&AMST 3980 | Independent Research&
#Affords opportunities for students to carry out independent research under appropriate supervision. Each student is expected to review pertinent literature, prepare a project outline, conduct the research, and prepare a report. Topic and credit hours TBD as arranged between faculty and student.#
&AMST 3990 | Readings in American Studies&
#Individualized readings for junior and senior students. Topics, requirements, and credit hours will be determined in consultation between the student and the supervising faculty member.#
&AMST 4021 | American Conservative Thought&
#American conservative thought rests on assumptions that are strikingly different from those made by mainstream American liberals.  However, conservative thinkers are themselves committed to principles that are both quite varied and sometimes contradictory.  This course examines the assumptions upon which rest the libertarian, market/economic, and cultural/traditional strains of American conservatism and asks whether the tensions between them weaken or strengthen conservative thought as an alternative to mainstream liberalism.#
&AMST 4051 | Death Penalty in America&
#The death penalty has gotten increased media attention due to high profile death row exonerations, and has long been under siege for other reasons, such as racial disparities in its imposition and the prevalence of very poor representation by defense counsel. This course surveys the legal and social issues that arise in the administration of the death penalty. The reading will be largely comprised of reported death penalty cases, but will be augmented by a variety of other sources, including empirical studies of the death penalty and the litigation experience of the professors. Although the focus will be on capital punishment as practiced in the United States, we will also consider international and comparative perspectives. Guest speakers will provide a range of views, and law students with experience working on capital cases will lead discussion sections.#
&AMST 4066 | Technological Change at Work&
#Computers and digital technologies including robotics, machine learning, artificial intelligence (AI), internet-enabled platforms, and other "high-tech" drivers of automation have revolutionized the nature and organization of work in the U.S., with material implications for workers and their families, among others. This upper-level seminar begins with a rhetorical inquiry into whether and when the technological change engendered by digitization and the so-called "Information Technology (IT) Revolution" benefits workers. We then consider the broader impact of recent technological advances on manufacturing and fabrication, low- and semi-skilled service work, i.e., restaurant servers and bus drivers, and even on expert and professional work like that to which most of you presumably aspire. Among the central themes is the notion that technology does not unilaterally act upon workers, their employers, or society-at-large. Rather, workers, managers, customers, institutions, and policymakers shape which advances take hold and which do not, the ways that these technologies are deployed in the workplace, and the ways that society can actively mitigate the costs to technological advancement while harnessing its benefits.#
&AMST 4111 | The Historical Geography of Black America&
#This course provides students with a challenging and interdisciplinary examination of race and space in North American history. It engages public history and critical geographic study through the lens of African Diasporic place-making from the early national period to the present day. How did Afro-descendant people in North America come to know the landscape and fashion communities around wilderness, swamps, urban cores and other "undesirable" areas? What material elements of black spaces came to define what is meant by slums and ghettos? This course illustrates how ongoing struggles that Black communities face with displacement and gentrification are part of a long history that developed alongside territorial expansion and nation building that charted uneven paths to prosperity based on race, gender, and class. This course is timely given that there are about 1,912 sites listed in the U.S. National Register of Historic Places Database as having significance to "Black" heritage and will help students develop their facilities for assigning meaning to these identified sites and what place these spaces have in the understanding of American history.#
&AMST 4417 | Ecopolitics&
#At this time of planetary instability, all politics are environmental politics. But all environmental politics are not the same. Contemporary movements diverge around key questions: Is technology an environmental boon or an environmental bad? Can sustainable ends be achieved through capitalist means? Who should be endowed with the power to intervene? At what scale, in what ways, on whose behalf? Reading across different ecopolitical formations—conservation, green capitalism, ecosocialism, ecofascism, and more—we ask how "the environment" manages to contain such a capacious field, why it so thoroughly deranges usual political coordinates. Then, we hone tools for thinking critically and hopefully within the mess.#
&AMST 4519 | Toni Morrison's Novels&
#In this course, we will engage in close and reflective critical readings of Toni Morrison's eleven novels. Morrison's writing style is characterized by highly distinctive strategies in the development of narrative and in the use of language. As we journey across her body of work as readers, we will examine a range of recurring themes, along with the "love trilogy" on which she focused her repertoire for several years. The course, through a comprehensive, chronological and focused look at Morrison's body of novels, will help students who entirely lack familiarity with it to gain a strong foundation for further research and study. By the end of the course, even students who already know Morrison's work will walk away with a deeper and more nuanced understanding of it. The course will help students to reinforce their skills in reading fiction, and more astute and exacting readers of the novel as a genre.#
&AMST 4555 | Indigenous Erasure and Resurfacing&
#This seminar examines long-term colonialist processes of erasing Indigenous histories, and recent attempts to bring this heritage back to visibility. We will read texts by Michel-Rolph Trouillot, Jean O'Brien, Patrick Wolfe, Keith Basso, Andrea Lynn Smith, and others. Students will engage in critical analysis of primary sources, Indigenous histories, and monuments related to the American 1779 Sullivan-Clinton invasion of Haudenosaunee (Six Nations Confederacy) territory and also the post-1779 Haudenosaunee reoccupations after the devastation. Student projects will focus on local Indigenous heritage and can include artwork, videos, counter-monument designs, poetry, and prose fiction, as well as more traditional academic research papers.#
&AMST 4556 | Decolonial Poetics and Aesthetics: Arts of Resistance in the Americas&
#Exploring a genealogy of Latinx, Afro-Latinx, Black, Indigenous, and Chicana/o/x theorizations of modernity and identity, the course asks, what is the decolonial? Is it a space between the colonial and post-colonial? Is it a creative process, an intellectual theorization, or a historical period? Is it a performance, intervention, or embodied experience? Tracing a historical trajectory of the decolonial in poetry, performance, installation, and visual art, the course examines decolonial modes of making and being from the sixteenth to the twenty first century.#
&AMST 4681 | Cages and Creativity: Arts in Incarceration&
#This course explores the increasing presence of all the arts in prisons throughout the country and examines the increasing scholarship surrounding arts programs and their efficacy for incarcerated persons. The course uses video's, archival material, reading material and in-person or Zoom interviews to investigate how and why art is taught in prisons. The course will also look at art produced by incarcerated artists as well as art by those who are still practicing after going home. And finally, the course will explore the increasing scholarship around the impact practicing the arts while incarcerated has on recidivism rates and preparation for re-entry.#
&AMST 4705 | Nightlife&
#This course explores nightlife as a temporality that fosters countercultural performances of the self and that serves as a site for the emergence of alternative kinship networks. Focusing on queer communities of color, course participants will be asked to interrogate the ways in which nightlife demonstrates the queer world-making potential that exists beyond the normative 9-5 capitalist model of production. Performances of the everyday, alongside films, texts, and performance art, will be analyzed through a performance studies methodological lens. Through close readings and sustained cultural analysis, students will acquire a critical understanding of the potentiality of spaces, places, and geographies codified as "after hours" in the development of subcultures, alternative sexualities, and emerging performance practices.#
&AMST 4792 | Latinx Education Across the Americas&
#This course examines Latinx education in comparative perspective, with a focus on transnational communities and cross-border movements that link U.S. Latinx education with Latin American education. We ask: how do legacies of colonialism and empire shape the education of Latinx and Latin American communities? How are race, language, gender, cultural and national identity, and representation negotiated in schools? Drawing on ethnographic studies of education in and out of school, we explore how families and youths create knowledge, do literacy, and respond to cultural diversity, displacement, migration, and inequality. Throughout, we inquire into the potential for a decolonial and transformative education.#
&AMST 4994 | Honors Essay Tutorial II&
#To graduate with honors, AMST majors must complete a senior thesis under the supervision of an AMST faculty member and defend that thesis orally before a committee. Students interested in the honors program should consult the AMST Director of Undergraduate Study during the junior year and submit an honors application by May 1 of the junior year.#
&AMST 5710 | US Education System: Courts, Data, Law and Politics&
#This course aims to explore and answer a single question about America's promise-of success if you work hard and do well in school: Why do we have such substantial and long-standing inequality in the U.S.? In answering this central question, we will investigate the goals, roles, and outcomes of formal educational institutions in American society and the legal and policy environment in which they operate. Specifically, we will review historical state and federal policy, trace the $700 million spent, and interrogate the sociological functions of public and private K12 schools, including the successes, failures, and enigmas of school organization and policy at the local, state, and national level.#
&AMST 6011 | The American State&
#Contemporary politics raise profound questions about the American past and how aspects of it have traveled across time and into the present, shaping US government and politics. This PhD-level seminar uses historical and institutional lenses to examine analytical questions about the origins and development of the American state as well as processes of political change. In Spring 2021, we will explore American political development with an eye toward understanding how threats to democracy have waxed and waned and combined over time, and the implications for the present. We will focus on topics such as political parties and polarization; conflict over belongs, with respect to race and gender; economic inequality; and executive aggrandizement. We will read some classic texts as well as new and recent ones.#
&AMST 6111 | The Historical Geography of Black America&
#This course provides students with a challenging and interdisciplinary examination of race and space in North American history. It engages public history and critical geographic study through the lens of African Diasporic place-making from the early national period to the present day. How did Afro-descendant people in North America come to know the landscape and fashion communities around wilderness, swamps, urban cores and other "undesirable" areas? What material elements of black spaces came to define what is meant by slums and ghettos? This course illustrates how ongoing struggles that Black communities face with displacement and gentrification are part of a long history that developed alongside territorial expansion and nation building that charted uneven paths to prosperity based on race, gender, and class. This course is timely given that there are about 1,912 sites listed in the U.S. National Register of Historic Places Database as having significance to "Black" heritage and will help students develop their facilities for assigning meaning to these identified sites and what place these spaces have in the understanding of American history.#
&AMST 6865 | Martin Luther King, Jr.&
#This seminar is an intensive study of the political thought of W.E.B. Du Bois and Martin Luther King, Jr. Approaching texts in contexts, we will read works including The Souls of Black Folk, Darkwater, Black Reconstruction in America, Stride toward Freedom, and Where Do We Go from Here? as illocutionary interventions in major political crises and ideological disputes of twentieth century Black political thought. Topics we will explore include freedom and dignity, slavery and its afterlives, racial capitalism, leadership and mass politics, democracy and abolition, empire and decolonization, political aesthetics, and the politics of prophetic critique. We will pay special attention to Du Bois and King's respective contributions in national and transnational contexts of the global color line.#
&AMST 7417 | Ecopolitics&
#At this time of planetary instability, all politics are environmental politics. But all environmental politics are not the same. Contemporary movements diverge around key questions: Is technology an environmental boon or an environmental bad? Can sustainable ends be achieved through capitalist means? Who should be endowed with the power to intervene? At what scale, in what ways, on whose behalf? Reading across different ecopolitical formations—conservation, green capitalism, ecosocialism, ecofascism, and more—we ask how "the environment" manages to contain such a capacious field, why it so thoroughly deranges usual political coordinates. Then, we hone tools for thinking critically and hopefully within the mess.#
&AMST 7555 | Indigenous Erasure and Resurfacing&
#This seminar examines long-term colonialist processes of erasing Indigenous histories, and recent attempts to bring this heritage back to visibility. We will read texts by Michel-Rolph Trouillot, Jean O'Brien, Patrick Wolfe, Keith Basso, Andrea Lynn Smith, and others. Students will engage in critical analysis of primary sources, Indigenous histories, and monuments related to the American 1779 Sullivan-Clinton invasion of Haudenosaunee (Six Nations Confederacy) territory and also the post-1779 Haudenosaunee reoccupations after the devastation. Student projects will focus on local Indigenous heritage and can include artwork, videos, counter-monument designs, poetry, and prose fiction, as well as more traditional academic research papers.#
&AMST 7792 | Latinx Education Across the Americas&
#This course examines Latinx education in comparative perspective, with a focus on transnational communities and cross-border movements that link U.S. Latinx education with Latin American education. We ask: how do legacies of colonialism and empire shape the education of Latinx and Latin American communities? How are race, language, gender, cultural and national identity, and representation negotiated in schools? Drawing on ethnographic studies of education in and out of school, we explore how families and youths create knowledge, do literacy, and respond to cultural diversity, displacement, migration, and inequality. Throughout, we inquire into the potential for a decolonial and transformative education.#


$ANSC | Animal Science$
&ANSC 1105 | Careers in Animal Science&
#In addition to preparing students for veterinary medicine, a degree in Animal Science is excellent background for careers in agricultural production, education, marketing, communications, and policy development, in both private and public sectors. In this course, students explore these opportunities and develop professional skills that will aid them in career planning.#
&ANSC 1400 | Wool: Animal Fiber Production and Processing&
#No description available.#
&ANSC 2100 | Practical Large Animal Handling&
#The course will introduce students to the fundamental principles of handling and restraint including basic veterinary techniques pertaining to horses, beef and dairy cattle, swine, sheep, and poultry. Topics include basic animal anatomy and physiology, identifying breeds of various large animal species, breeding techniques, and general husbandry and management practices. This course is designed to enhance the large animal handling skills of animal science students.#
&ANSC 2210 | Principles of Animal Genetics&
#This course focuses on the genetic foundation and improvement of domestic species. Basic cellular biology and DNA replication will lay the groundwork for understanding the genetic mechanisms underlying traits, modern genomic tool development, and analysis methods. Critical thinking towards animal breeding and management will require an understanding of heritability, population dynamics, rate of selection, and genetic and economic gain. Software and reference programs will be used to investigate animal genes and genomes, individual genotypes through DNA sequence or whole-genome marker panels, and statistical associations between traits and genetic markers. Modern examples, practical applications, and hands-on tools will be key components of this class in order to appreciate the intricacies of genetics and the future of genomic research for the improvement and management of animals.#
&ANSC 2400 | Biology of Reproduction&
#Comparative anatomy and physiology of mammalian and avian reproduction, with emphasis on domestic and laboratory animals; fertilization through embryonic development, pregnancy, and growth to sexual maturity; emphasis on physiological mechanisms and application to fertility regulation. Separate laboratory is offered to demonstrate fundamental aspects of reproduction and reproductive technology.#
&ANSC 2410 | Biology of Reproduction Lab&
#Demonstrates fundamental principles and applied aspects of mammalian and avian reproduction. A limited number of live animals are used in some demonstrations. Dissection and examination of tissues from vertebrate animals are included in selected laboratories.#
&ANSC 2552 | Dairy Study Trip to Italy III&
#This course is the third part of a three-part course that includes an intensive study trip designed for exposure to a variety of dairy related agricultural production approaches in diverse regions of Italy.#
&ANSC 3100 | Animal Welfare&
#This course will cover the basic principles, history, and application of animal welfare science for multiple species. Students will learn to assess the welfare of animals in a variety of settings using science-based methods and reasoning. The objective of this course is to provide students with a background in and ability to apply principles of animal welfare science, which will facilitate their ability to successfully engage in welfare deliberations.#
&ANSC 3300 | Fish Physiology&
#Fish Physiology is an introduction to the functional biology of fish. Lecture topics will cover cellular and tissue function within key physiological systems that help fish thrive in a wide range of aquatic habitats, from mountain streams to deep-sea vents. These systems will be illustrated using a diverse variety of fish, while broader comparisons between fish and higher vertebrates will also be drawn. Discussion will integrate aquaculture, fisheries, and environmental contexts, including some of the anthropogenic challenges that fish face today and what can be done to mitigate them. Students will perform a gross dissection to identify anatomy in situ and visit an aquaculture facility (there is no separate lab section).#
&ANSC 3310 | Applied Dairy Cattle Genetics&
#Course will review the current knowledge base of dairy cattle genetics including the genetic regulation of diseases, production and health traits. Genomic evaluation scores will be assessed with an emphasis on how to prioritize and balance genetic selection towards long-term sustainability. Mating strategies will be evaluated for the achievement of goals and impact on both the individual animal and overall herd.#
&ANSC 3450 | Reproductive Physiology and Management of Dairy Cattle&
#This course integrates concepts of reproductive physiology, management, and economics of dairy cattle. Special emphasis is given to practices and technologies currently used in modern dairy operations. Laboratory sessions include hands-on learning of reproductive techniques and dairy herd management software. Concepts discussed in lecture and their respective application include: artificial insemination, rectal palpation and transrectal ultrasonography of the reproductive tract and ovaries, synchronization of estrus and ovulation, blood testing for pregnancy diagnosis, superovulation and embryo transfer, in-vitro fertilization and embryo production.#
&ANSC 3510 | Dairy Herd Management&
#Course integrates concepts of cow biology, management, economics, and sustainability of dairy operations. Special emphasis is given to management practices and technologies that affect cattle health and well-being, milk production and quality, reproduction, herd growth, milking, and environmental impact of dairy production. Basic concepts of dairy foods processing and the importance of milk quality for dairy products are covered. Laboratory sessions include hands-on learning of dairy software, analysis of alternative strategies, and decision-making. Commercial farm case studies are used to integrate concepts of biology and management learned in the course.#
&ANSC 3511 | Junior Dairy Fellows&
#Designed for undergraduates who have a sincere interest in dairy production management and the dairy industry. The objective of this course is to impart further understanding of the integration and application of dairy science to dairy production enterprises and related industries. The course emphasizes a wide range of dairy- and agriculture- related businesses and personnel that work with the dairy industry worldwide.#
&ANSC 3550 | Dairy Cattle Nutrition&
#Provides a foundation in the principles of dairy cattle nutrition and dairy ration formulation with emphasis on application of feeding programs on dairy farms. Laboratory emphasizes hands-on evaluation of feeds, use of ration formulation software for ration evaluation and formulation, and case study analysis of dairy farms.#
&ANSC 3562 | International Dairy Study Trip III&
#This course is designed to reflect on the intensive 8-10 day study trip where students were exposed to a variety of dairy-related agricultural production approaches in the country of interest. Topics will include dairy management, environmental regulations, profitability, related government support programs and the role of cultures impact on production.#
&ANSC 3700 | Immunology in Animal Health and Disease&
#Covers selected concepts in immunology, with a focus on those that are important to domestic animal health and disease prevention. Students learn how to apply their knowledge of immunological principles to understand current literature, research, and practices.#
&ANSC 3920 | Mechanisms of Animal Growth and Development&
#A course on the basic biology of animal growth and development. The course relies on data obtained from a variety of species to describe whole animal growth patterns through life and the molecular and cellular mechanisms underpinning the formation of key tissues. Lecutres cover (1) patterns of whole-animal growth during fetal and postnatal life; (2) molecular and cellular basis of formation and development of skeletal muscle, adipose tissue, and bone; (3) regulation of growth and development by hormones and growth factors.#
&ANSC 4020 | Seminar in Animal Sciences&
#Reports of undergraduate honors research projects. Students present oral reports of their work for class discussion in addition to written reports.#
&ANSC 4120 | Whole-Farm Nutrient Management&
#Provides students with an understanding of the concepts and practices underlying whole-farm nutrient management planning of livestock and dairy farms. Improving profitability and efficiency are key factors considered while improving air and water quality associated with dairy production. Students learn about nutrient management on (Concentrated) Animal Feeding Operations ((C)AFO's) and conduct a whole farm nutrient balance for a farm of choice. This course integrates crop and manure management with nutrition and herd management to provide a broad but focused and action-oriented approach. The course utilizes three software programs for nutrient management planning and herd nutritional management: Cropware, the Cornell Net Carbohydrate and Protein System (CNCPS), and the Whole Farm Nutrient Mass Balance program. Current topics are also discussed, such as greenhouse gas emissions and impacts of dairy and livestock production and local versus global food production and environmental impacts.#
&ANSC 4280 | Comparative Nutrition of the Horse and Pig&
#Throughout their evolution, members of the Suidae family have adopted omnivorous feeding strategies of great elasticity. They share similar gastrointestinal physiological traits with the Equidae family members, which have remained strict obligate herbivores. Learning nutrition of the domestic horse and pig under the same umbrella offers a way to exploit their differences and similarities and understand the underlying factors that dictate their nutrient and feed requirements. The course covers the following topics using a comparative approach between the two species: gastrointestinal anatomy and digestive processes, feed ingredients and composition, feeding behavior and management, and diet-induced metabolic disorders. Learning activities include discussions, weekly journaling, monthly short research papers, gastrointestinal tract dissections, diet evaluation and formulation, field trips, and hands-on feeding trial(s).#
&ANSC 4410 | Metabolic Physiology&
#The course will integrate animal nutrition, biochemistry, and physiology. The overall goal is to enhance understanding of intermediary metabolism and metabolic adaptations that develop to support different physiological states. The comparative study of biochemistry across mammalian species will be emphasized. The structural and functional roles of biochemicals and the ability of hormones to influence their metabolic fate will be highlighted.#
&ANSC 4560 | Dairy Management Fellowship&
#Designed for undergraduates who have a sincere interest in dairy farm management. The course objective is to gain further understanding of the integration and application of dairy farm management principles and programs with respect to progressive dairying and related industries. There are field trips focusing on dairy farm business analyses and feedback, along with other experiential learning activities and professional development and networking opportunities. Field trips will be held on announced Saturdays throughout the course of the semester.#
&ANSC 4960 | Internship in Animal Science&
#Structured, on-the-job learning experience under supervision of qualified professionals in a cooperating organization (e.g., farm, agribusiness, pharmaceutical company, zoo, educational institution). Internships are arranged by the student and must be approved in advance by the student's academic advisor. The internship should provide a professionally supervised experience with at least 60 hours on the job per credit required. All ANSC 4960 internship courses must adhere to the CALS guidelines at cals.cornell.edu/academics/student-research/internship.#
&ANSC 4970 | Individual Study in Animal Science&
#May include individual tutorial study or a lecture topic selected by a professor. Because topics may change, the course may be repeated for credit.#
&ANSC 4980 | Undergraduate Teaching in Animal Science&
#Designed to consolidate the student's knowledge. A participating student assists in teaching a course allied with his or her education and experience. The student is expected to meet regularly with a discussion or laboratory section, to gain teaching experience, and regularly to discuss teaching objectives, techniques, and subject matter with the professor in charge.#
&ANSC 4990 | Undergraduate Research in Animal Science&
#Affords opportunities for students to carry out independent research under appropriate supervision. Each student is expected to review pertinent literature, prepare a project outline, conduct the research, and prepare a report.#
&ANSC 5100 | Introduction to Animal Welfare&
#This course will cover the basic principles, history, and application of animal welfare science for multiple species. Students will learn to assess the welfare of animals in a variety of settings using science-based methods and reasoning. The objective of this course is to provide students with a background in and ability to apply principles of animal welfare science, which will facilitate their ability to successfully engage in welfare deliberations.#
&ANSC 5210 | Principles of Animal Genetics&
#This course focuses on the genetic foundation and improvement of domestic species. Basic cellular biology and DNA replication will lay the groundwork for understanding the genetic mechanisms underlying traits, modern genomic tool development, and analysis methods. Critical thinking towards animal breeding and management will require an understanding of heritability, population dynamics, rate of selection, and genetic and economic gain. Software and reference programs will be used to investigate animal genes and genomes, individual genotypes through DNA sequence or whole-genome marker panels, and statistical associations between traits and genetic markers. Modern examples, practical applications, and hands-on tools will be key components of this class in order to appreciate the intricacies of genetics and the future of genomic research for the improvement and management of animals.#
&ANSC 5220 | MPS Professional Development Seminar&
#This course is designed to train students in the Master of Professional Studies program in communication and presentation skills needed for future careers. Each student will present several times on their capstone project. Advice, feedback, and peer-evaluation will be provided to each presenter. This course also aims to foster collegiality, expand knowledge, and promote professional development among graduate students in a broad context within this diverse field.#
&ANSC 5300 | Fish Physiology&
#Fish Physiology is an introduction to the functional biology of fish. Lecture topics will cover cellular and tissue function within key physiological systems that help fish thrive in a wide range of aquatic habitats, from mountain streams to deep-sea vents. These systems will be illustrated using a diverse variety of fish, while broader comparisons between fish and higher vertebrates will also be drawn. Discussion will integrate aquaculture, fisheries, and environmental contexts, including some of the anthropogenic challenges that fish face today and what can be done to mitigate them. Students will perform a gross dissection to identify anatomy in situ and visit an aquaculture facility (there is no separate lab section).#
&ANSC 5450 | Reproductive Physiology and Management of Dairy Cattle&
#This course integrates concepts of reproductive physiology, management, and economics of dairy cattle. Special emphasis is given to practices and technologies currently used in modern dairy operations. Laboratory sessions include hands-on learning of reproductive techniques and dairy herd management software. Concepts discussed in lecture and their respective application include: artificial insemination, rectal palpation and transrectal ultrasonography of the reproductive tract and ovaries, synchronization of estrus and ovulation, blood testing for pregnancy diagnosis, superovulation and embryo transfer, in-vitro fertilization and embryo production.#
&ANSC 5510 | Dairy Herd Management&
#Course integrates concepts of cow biology, management, economics, and sustainability of dairy operations. Special emphasis is given to management practices and technologies that affect cattle health and well-being, milk production and quality, reproduction, herd growth, milking, and environmental impact of dairy production. Basic concepts of dairy foods processing and the importance of milk quality for dairy products are covered. Laboratory sessions include hands-on learning of dairy software, analysis of alternative strategies, and decision-making. Commercial farm case studies are used to integrate concepts of biology and management learned in the course.#
&ANSC 5550 | Dairy Cattle Nutrition&
#Provides a foundation in the principles of dairy cattle nutrition and dairy ration formulation with emphasis on application of feeding programs on dairy farms. Laboratory emphasizes hands-on evaluation of feeds, use of ration formulation software for ration evaluation and formulation, and case study analysis of dairy farms.#
&ANSC 5920 | Mechanisms of Animal Growth and Development&
#A course on the basic biology of animal growth and development. The course relies on data obtained from a variety of species to describe whole animal growth patterns through life and the molecular and cellular mechanisms underpinning the formation of key tissues. Lectures cover (1) patterns of whole-animal growth during fetal and postnatal life; (2) molecular and cellular basis of formation and development of skeletal muscle, adipose tissue, and bone; (3) regulation of growth and development by hormones and growth factors.#
&ANSC 6120 | Whole-Farm Nutrient Management&
#Provides students with an understanding of the concepts and practices underlying whole-farm nutrient management planning of livestock and dairy farms. Improving profitability and efficiency are key factors considered while improving air and water quality associated with dairy production. Students learn about nutrient management on (Concentrated) Animal Feeding Operations ((C)AFO's) and conduct a whole farm nutrient balance for a farm of choice. This course integrates crop and manure management with nutrition and herd management to provide a broad but focused and action-oriented approach. The course utilizes three software programs for nutrient management planning and herd nutritional management: Cropware, the Cornell Net Carbohydrate and Protein System (CNCPS), and the Whole Farm Nutrient Mass Balance program. Current topics are also discussed, such as greenhouse gas emissions and impacts of dairy and livestock production and local versus global food production and environmental impacts.#
&ANSC 6190 | Division of Nutritional Sciences Seminar&
#Lectures on current research in nutrition.#
&ANSC 6220 | Graduate Student Research Updates&
#This course is designed to train Animal Science graduate students in communication/presentation skills needed to support a career in scientific research. Each student will present an update on research progress/plan towards his or her dissertation/thesis. Advice, feedback and peer-evaluation will be provided to each presenter. Focused discussions examining research areas of particular interest to each student on research methods, existing theories and/or controversies will be considered. This course also aims to foster collegiality, expand knowledge and promote professional development among graduate students in a broad context within this diverse field.#
&ANSC 6280 | Comparative Nutrition of the Horse and Pig&
#Throughout their evolution, members of the Suidae family have adopted omnivorous feeding strategies of great elasticity. They share similar gastrointestinal physiological traits with the Equidae family members, which have remained strict obligate herbivores. Learning nutrition of the domestic horse and pig under the same umbrella offers a way to exploit their differences and similarities and understand the underlying factors that dictate their nutrient and feed requirements. The course covers the following topics using a comparative approach between the two species: gastrointestinal anatomy and digestive processes, feed ingredients and composition, feeding behavior and management, and diet-induced metabolic disorders. Learning activities include discussions, weekly journaling, monthly short research papers, gastrointestinal tract dissections, diet evaluation and formulation, field trips, and hands-on feeding trial(s).#
&ANSC 6310 | Applied Dairy Cattle Genetics&
#Course will review the current knowledge base of dairy cattle genetics including the genetic regulation of diseases, production and health traits. Genomic evaluation scores will be assessed with an emphasis on how to prioritize and balance genetic selection towards long-term sustainability. Mating strategies will be evaluated for the achievement of goals and impact on both the individual animal and overall herd.#
&ANSC 6400 | Graduate-Level Individual Study in Animal Science&
#Graduate individual study in Animal Science under the direction of one or more faculty members.#
&ANSC 6410 | Metabolic Physiology&
#The course will integrate animal nutrition, biochemistry, and physiology. The overall goal is to enhance understanding of intermediary metabolism and metabolic adaptations that develop to support different physiological states. The comparative study of biochemistry across mammalian species will be emphasized. The structural and functional roles of biochemicals and the ability of hormones to influence their metabolic fate will be highlighted.#
&ANSC 6700 | Immunology in Animal Health and Disease&
#Covers selected concepts in immunology, with a focus on those that are important to domestic animal health and disease prevention. Students learn how to apply their knowledge of immunological principles to understand current literature, research, and practices.#
&ANSC 7900 | Graduate-Level Thesis Research&
#Thesis research for Ph.D. students only before "A" exam has been passed.#
&ANSC 8900 | Master's Level Thesis Research&
#Thesis research for master's students.#
&ANSC 9900 | Doctoral-Level Thesis Research&
#Thesis research for Ph.D. candidates after "A" exam has been passed.#


$ANTHR | Anthropology$
&ANTHR 1101 | FWS: Culture, Society, and Power&
#This First-Year Writing Seminar is devoted to the anthropological study of the human condition. Anthropology examines all aspects of human experience, from the evolution of the species to contemporary challenges of politics, environment, and society. The discipline emphasizes empirically rich field research informed by sophisticated theoretical understandings of human social life and cultural production. The diversity of anthropology's interests provides a diverse array of stimulating opportunities to write critically about the human condition. Topics vary by semester.#
&ANTHR 1300 | Human Evolution: Genes, Behavior, and the Fossil Record&
#The evolution of humankind is explored through the fossil record, studies of the biological differences among current human populations, and a comparison with our closest relatives, the primates. This course investigates the roots of human biology and behavior with an evolutionary framework.#
&ANTHR 2400 | Cultural Diversity and Contemporary Issues&
#This course will introduce students to the meaning and significance of forms of cultural diversity for the understanding of contemporary issues. Drawing from films, videos, and selected readings, students will be confronted with different representational forms that portray cultures in various parts of the world, and they will be asked to examine critically their own prejudices as they influence the perception and evaluation of cultural differences. We shall approach cultures holistically, assuming the inseparability of economies, kinship, religion, and politics, as well as interconnections and dependencies between world areas such as Africa, Latin America, the West. Among the issues considered: political correctness and truth; nativism and ecological diversity; race, ethnicity, and sexuality; sin, religion, and war; global process and cultural integrity.#
&ANTHR 2468 | Medicine, Culture, and Society&
#Medicine has become the language and practice through which we address a broad range of both individual and societal complaints. Interest in this medicalization of life may be one of the reasons that medical anthropology is currently the fastest-growing subfield in anthropology. This course encourages students to examine concepts of disease, suffering, health, and well-being in their immediate experience and beyond. In the process, students will gain a working knowledge of ecological, critical, phenomenological, and applied approaches used by medical anthropologists. We will investigate what is involved in becoming a doctor, the sociality of medicines, controversies over new medical technologies, and the politics of medical knowledge. The universality of biomedicine, or hospital medicine, will not be taken for granted, but rather we will examine the plurality generated by the various political, economic, social, and ethical demands under which biomedicine has developed in different places and at different times. In addition, biomedical healing and expertise will be viewed in relation to other kinds of healing and expertise. Our readings will address medicine in North America as well as other parts of the world. In class, our discussions will return regularly to consider the broad diversity of kinds of medicine throughout the world, as well as the specific historical and local contexts of biomedicine.#
&ANTHR 2546 | South Asian Religions in Practice: The Healing Traditions&
#This course offers an anthropological approach to the study of religious traditions and practices in South Asia: India, Pakistan, Sri Lanka, and Nepal. The course begins with a short survey of the major religious traditions of South Asia: Hinduism, Buddhism, Jainism, Sikhism, and Islam. We look to the development of these traditions through historical and cultural perspectives. The course then turns to the modern period, considering the impact of colonialism, nationalism, and globalization upon religious ideologies and practices. The primary focus of the course will be the ethnographic study of contemporary religious practices in the region. We examine phenomena such as ritual, pilgrimage, possession, devotionalism, monasticism, asceticism, and revivalism through a series of ethnographic case studies. In so doing, we also seek to understand the impact of politics, modernity, diasporic movement, social inequality, changing gender roles, and mass mediation upon these traditions and practices.#
&ANTHR 2720 | From the Swampy Land: Indigenous People of the Ithaca Area&
#Who lived in the Ithaca area before American settlers and Cornell arrived? Where do these indigenous peoples reside today? This class explores the history and culture of the Gayogoho:no (Cayuga), which means people from the mucky land. We will read perspectives by indigenous authors, as well as archaeologists and historians, about past and current events, try to understand reasons why that history has been fragmented and distorted by more recent settlers, and delve into primary sources documenting encounters between settlers and the Gayogoho:no. We will also strive to understand the ongoing connections of the Gayogoho:no to this region despite forced dispossession and several centuries of colonialist exclusion from these lands and waters.#
&ANTHR 2729 | Climate, Archaeology and History&
#An introduction to the story of how human history from the earliest times through to the recent period interrelates with changing climate conditions on Earth. The course explores the whole expanse of human history, but concentrates on the most recent 15,000 years through to the Little Ice Age (14th-19th centuries AD). Evidence from science, archaeology and history are brought together to assess how climate has shaped the human story.#
&ANTHR 3041 | Reproductive Justice&
#This course is organized around the central theme of reproductive justice. It interrogates the connections between reproductive politics and policy, engaged research, and public health. By approaching reproduction through the lens of justice, we as a class will engage in sustained reflection on the place of reproduction within health, healthcare, and activism. The course situates reproduction and reproductive health within historical trajectories of health activism and governance, including but not limited to abortion, assisted reproduction, and immigration.#
&ANTHR 3235 | Bioarchaeology&
#Bioarchaeology is the study of human remains from archaeological sites. Like forensic scientists at the scene of the crime, bioarchaeologists search for clues embedded in human bone and mummified tissues to reconstruct how ancient peoples lived and died. As a dynamic living system, the human skeleton responds not only to hormones that govern human development but also to physiological stress brought on by disease, malnutrition, and trauma. The human body is also an artifact molded by cultural understandings of gender, prestige, self-expression, and violence. In this course, students will learn the scientific techniques for estimating skeletal age and sex, diagnosing pathology, and reconstructing diet and migration patterns. This course emphasizes the critical integration of biological and cultural evidence for understanding past individuals and societies.#
&ANTHR 3245 | Across the Seas: Contacts between the Americas and the Old World Before Columbus&
#This course considers the possibility of connections between the America and the Old World before the Spanish discovery not only as an empirical question, but also as an intensely controversial issue that has tested the limits of the scholarly detachment that archaeologists imagine characterizes their perspectives. We will consider the evidence for several possible episodes of interaction as well as the broader issue of how long-distance interaction can be recognized in the archaeological record.  Transoceanic contact is a common element in popular visions of the American past, but most professional archaeologists have rejected the possibility with great vehemence.  The issue provides an interesting case study in the power of orthodoxy in archaeology.#
&ANTHR 3255 | Ancient Mexico and Central America&
#An introduction to ancient Mesoamerica, focusing on the nature and development of societies that are arguably the most complex to develop anywhere in the precolumbian Americas. The course provides a summary of the history of the region before the European invasion, but the emphasis is on the organization of Mesoamerican societies: the distinctive features of Mesoamerican cities, economies, political systems, religion. We begin by considering Mesoamerican societies at the time of the Spanish invasion. Our focus will be on descriptions of the Aztecs of Central Mexico by Europeans and indigenous survivors, in an attempt to extract from them a model of the fundamental organizational features of one Mesoamerican society, making allowances for what we can determine about the perspectives and biases of their authorsWe then review the precolumbian history of Mesoamerica looking for variations on these themes as well as indications of alternative forms of organization. We will also look at such issues as the transition from mobile to sedentary lifeways, the processes involved in the domestication of plants and animals, the emergence of cities and states, and the use of invasion-period and ethnographic information to interpret precolumbian societies in comparative perspective.#
&ANTHR 3405 | Multicultural Issues in Education&
#This course explores research on race, ethnicity and language in American education. It examines historical and current patterns of school achievement for minoritized youths. It also examines the cultural and social premises undergirding educational practices in diverse communities and schools. Policies, programs and pedagogy, including multicultural and bilingual education, are explored.#
&ANTHR 3430 | London’s Transforming Urban Environment&
#This course is a place-based seminar focused on key issues in contemporary urban nature, from the built environments of homes and neighborhoods, to infrastructures of waste and water management, to waterways, forests, and parks. Using the city of London as a case-study, students will explore topics including migration and racism; health and environmental justice; gentrification and public housing; "green" landscaping; climate change preparedness; and natural disaster. For the first eight weeks of the course, weekly seminars at Cornell will feature readings and discussions on these and other topics, drawn from anthropology, geography, sociology, and neighboring academic fields. Along the way, students will design independent projects focused on the history, ecology, and landscape of a particular neighborhood of the city. During spring break, the entire class will travel to London for one week in which we will be joined by local experts to explore the places and problems introduced in the first eight weeks. Students will carry out their independent research in London and present the results upon return.#
&ANTHR 3950 | Humanities Scholars Research Methods&
#This course explores the practice, theory, and methodology of humanities research, critical analysis, and communication through writing and oral presentation. We will study the work and impact of humanists (scholars of literature, history, theory, art, visual studies, film, anthropology, gender and sexuality studies), who pose big questions about the human condition. By reading and analyzing their scholarship—critiquing them and engaging their ideas—we will craft our own methods and voices. Students will refine their research methods (library research, note taking, organizing material, bibliographies, citation methods, proposals, outlines, etc.) and design their own independent research project.#
&ANTHR 4013 | Textual Ethnography&
#This course explores the implications and significance of using textual materials as anthropological evidence. While participant observation remains the cornerstone of ethnography, literary, archival, and other written works are increasingly being utilized as primary sources within the anthropological project. This course will hence offer an overview of anthropological works that trace the intersections between cultural production and the literary imagination. Rather than consider the literary elements of ethnography itself, we will strive to understand the disparate forms of social phenomena—both knowledge and practices—that arise from texts and textual practices specifically. Examples include analyses of literary cultures, media forms and non-traditional textual sources, bureaucratic structures, the use of archives, and more. Particular attention will be paid to works based in the Middle East and the Islamic world. By examining the different theoretical, political, and ethical considerations of using the written word as ethnographic evidence, we will be able to shed light on the anthropological project as a whole.#
&ANTHR 4030 | The Caucasus: Captives, Cultures, Conflicts&
#The Caucasus occupies a distinctive place in the historical and cultural imagination, a region long anchored to tropes of disobedience, punishment, and redemption. It is also a place in which liminality, betwixt and between Europe and Asia, endures as both a perceived geographic imaginary and an experienced condition in the detritus of Persian, Ottoman, Russian, and Soviet imperialisms. This course explores the Caucasus through its anthropology, history, and cultural production, with a particular focus on the Russian conquest, Soviet socialism, and the conflicts and capitalist formations of the post-Soviet decades. We will examine the entanglements of the region's history, political economy, and geopolitics in order to get a sense of the array of forces shaping the Caucasus today.#
&ANTHR 4220 | Inkas and their Empire&
#In little more than a century the Inkas created an empire stretching thousands of kilometers along the Andean spine from Ecuador to Chile. This course focuses on the political and economic structure of the empire and on its roots in earlier Andean prehistory. Archaeological remains, along with documents produced in the aftermath of the Spanish invasion, will be used to trace the history of Inka territorial organization, statecraft, and economic relationships and the Colonial transformation of Andean societies.#
&ANTHR 4401 | Advanced Documentary Production&
#This production seminar is for students with basic documentary filmmaking skills who want to work with previously collected footage and/or are in production on a project in or around Ithaca. Over the course of the semester, students complete a documentary film based on an immersive engagement with their selected subject matter. Alongside watching and discussing relevant texts and films, students will complete exercises to help them focus their projects, build a cohesive narrative, learn script writing, brainstorm scene ideas, overcome narrative challenges, discover their aesthetic, and develop a film circulation plan. Students will regularly present new footage and scenes and explain their work in terms their goals for the final project. The course culminates in a public screening of students' independent video projects.#
&ANTHR 4417 | Ecopolitics&
#At this time of planetary instability, all politics are environmental politics. But all environmental politics are not the same. Contemporary movements diverge around key questions: Is technology an environmental boon or an environmental bad? Can sustainable ends be achieved through capitalist means? Who should be endowed with the power to intervene? At what scale, in what ways, on whose behalf? Reading across different ecopolitical formations—conservation, green capitalism, ecosocialism, ecofascism, and more—we ask how "the environment" manages to contain such a capacious field, why it so thoroughly deranges usual political coordinates. Then, we hone tools for thinking critically and hopefully within the mess.#
&ANTHR 4476 | Carceral Worlds: Policing, Prisons, and Securitization&
#Grounded in anthropological and interdisciplinary analyses of policing, prisons, and security, this course aims to account for how carcerality shapes our worlds. Attentive to specificity and variability across place and time, we will consider how carceral logics take hold and expand, and how they are contested and reimagined. We will pay particular attention to the interrelatedness of race and carcerality; lived experiences of carcerality, including those of people imprisoned in various contexts and those engaged in carceral work; the intersections between carcerality and science and technology; and abolitionist frameworks that address the limitations and constitutive oppressions of carcerality as they radically reimagine other possibilities.#
&ANTHR 4489 | Theory and Anthropology from Below: Special Topics&
#This is a semester-long upper division seminar course that will rotate among members of the faculty focusing on different special topics in the fields of abolitionist, critical, and decolonial theories of the social and political.#
&ANTHR 4513 | Religion and Politics in Southeast Asia&
#This course explores how religious beliefs and practices in Southeast Asia have been transformed by the combined forces of colonialism, nationalism, and globalization. By examining both diversity and resurgence in one of the world's most rapidly modernizing regions, we aim to understand the common economic, social, and political conditions that are contributing to the popularity of contemporary religious movements. At the same time, we also consider the unique ideological, theological, and cultural understandings behind different religions and movements. Through this process we also rethink conceptions of modernity.#
&ANTHR 4514 | Topics in South Asian Culture and Literature&
#Topics will address South Asian culture and literature and change in relation to curricular needs within the Department of Asian Studies.#
&ANTHR 4620 | Jewish Cities&
#From Jerusalem to Rome, from Shanghai to Marrakesh, Jews and cities have been shaping each other for thousands of years. This course ranges through time and space to examine how Jewish and other "minority" experiences offer a window onto questions of modernity and post-colonialism in intersections of the built environment with migration, urban space, and memory. Readings and film/video encompass historical, ethnographic, visual, architectural and literary materials to offer a broad look at materials on ghettos, empires, cosmopolitanism, tolerance, immigrant enclaves, race and ethnicity.#
&ANTHR 4682 | Medicine and Healing in Africa&
#Therapeutic knowledge and practice in Africa have changed dynamically over the past century. Yet, questions about healing continue to be questions about the intimate ways that power works on bodies. Accounts of healing and medicine on the continent describe ongoing struggles over what counts as knowledge and who has the authority to intervene in social and physical threats. This class will discuss the expansion of biomedicine in Africa, the continuities and changes embodied in traditional medicine, and the shifting relationship between medicine, science and law. Our readings with trace how colonialism, post-independence nationalism, international development, environmental change and globalization have shaped the experience of illness, debility and misfortune today, as well as the possibilities for life, the context of care, and the meaning of death.#
&ANTHR 4700 | The Jewish Dead&
#We will explore the thesis that far from being dead and therefore gone, the continued presence of the dead is absolutely foundational for the workings of Jewishness. What that "presence" could possibly mean, to us who do not usually think in terms of immortal spirit, will be a central puzzle for our discussions. We will also have scope for consideration of ways in which the continuing "weight" of the dead may inhibit needed change and rethinking. Readings will include selections from the Babylonian Talmud, work in early modern cultural history, and studies of the culture of death and dying in contemporary Jewish communities, including the life and culture of Jewish cemeteries, especially in the New York area.#
&ANTHR 4725 | American Indian Lands and Sovereignties&
#The relationship between North American Indian peoples and the states of Canada and the US is in many ways unique, a product of centuries of trade compacts, treaties, legislation, warfare, land claim negotiations, and Supreme Court decisions. Apparently straightforward concepts such as "land," "property," and "sovereignty," based as they are on European cultural assumptions, often seem inadequate for making sense of the cross-cultural terrain of Indian-State relations, where they tend to take on new – and often ambiguous – meanings. In this course we will explore some of these ambiguous meanings, attending to the cultural realities they reflect and the social relationships they shape. Then we will examine the complex interplay of legal, political, and cultural forces by taking an in-depth look at several selected case studies.#
&ANTHR 4755 | Indigenous Erasure and Resurfacing&
#This seminar examines long-term colonialist processes of erasing Indigenous histories, and recent attempts to bring this heritage back to visibility. We will read texts by Michel-Rolph Trouillot, Jean O'Brien, Patrick Wolfe, Keith Basso, Andrea Lynn Smith, and others. Students will engage in critical analysis of primary sources, Indigenous histories, and monuments related to the American 1779 Sullivan-Clinton invasion of Haudenosaunee (Six Nations Confederacy) territory and also the post-1779 Haudenosaunee reoccupations after the devastation. Student projects will focus on local Indigenous heritage and can include artwork, videos, counter-monument designs, poetry, and prose fiction, as well as more traditional academic research papers.#
&ANTHR 4790 | Latinx Education Across the Americas&
#This course examines Latinx education in comparative perspective, with a focus on transnational communities and cross-border movements that link U.S. Latinx education with Latin American education. We ask: how do legacies of colonialism and empire shape the education of Latinx and Latin American communities? How are race, language, gender, cultural and national identity, and representation negotiated in schools? Drawing on ethnographic studies of education in and out of school, we explore how families and youths create knowledge, do literacy, and respond to cultural diversity, displacement, migration, and inequality. Throughout, we inquire into the potential for a decolonial and transformative education.#
&ANTHR 4910 | Independent Study: Undergrad I&
#Independent reading course in topics not covered in regularly scheduled courses. Students select a topic in consultation with the faculty member who has agreed to supervise the course work.#
&ANTHR 4920 | Independent Study: Undergrad II&
#Independent reading course in topics not covered in regularly scheduled courses. Students select a topic in consultation with the faculty member who has agreed to supervise the course work.#
&ANTHR 4984 | Honors Thesis Write-Up&
#Final write-up of the thesis under the direct supervision of the thesis advisor, who will assign the grade for this course.#
&ANTHR 4992 | Honors Workshop II&
#Course will consist of weekly, seminar-style meetings of all thesis writers until mid-semester, under the direction of the honors chair. This second semester concentrates on preparation of a full draft of the thesis by mid-semester, with ample time left for revisions prior to submission. Group meetings will concentrate on collective reviewing of the work of other students, presentation of research, and the like.#
&ANTHR 6025 | Proseminar in Anthropology&
#This course explores advanced topics in anthropological theory and practice. It builds on the history of the discipline that students will have examined in the preceding course ANTHR 6020, and seeks to immerse students in major contemporary theoretical developments and debates and the discipline's most pressing concerns. Coursework will proceed mainly by way of reading, writing, and discussion.#
&ANTHR 6235 | Bioarchaeology&
#Bioarchaeology is the study of human remains from archaeological sites. Like forensic scientists at the scene of the crime, bioarchaeologists search for clues embedded in human bone and mummified tissues to reconstruct how ancient peoples lived and died. As a dynamic living system, the human skeleton responds not only to hormones that govern human development but also to physiological stress brought on by disease, malnutrition, and trauma. The human body is also an artifact molded by cultural understandings of gender, prestige, self-expression, and violence. In this course, students will learn the scientific techniques for estimating skeletal age and sex, diagnosing pathology, and reconstructing diet and migration patterns. This course emphasizes the critical integration of biological and cultural evidence for understanding past individuals and societies.#
&ANTHR 6245 | Across the Seas: Contacts between the Americas and the Old World Before Columbus&
#This course considers the possibility of connections between the America and the Old World before the Spanish discovery not only as an empirical question, but also as an intensely controversial issue that has tested the limits of the scholarly detachment that archaeologists imagine characterizes their perspectives. We will consider the evidence for several possible episodes of interaction as well as the broader issue of how long-distance interaction can be recognized in the archaeological record.  Transoceanic contact is a common element in popular visions of the American past, but most professional archaeologists have rejected the possibility with great vehemence.  The issue provides an interesting case study in the power of orthodoxy in archaeology.#
&ANTHR 6250 | Archaeological Research Design&
#This studio-style seminar provides an in-depth examination of the principles and practices of archaeological research design. We will examine all aspects of the research process, from concept formation, to methodology, to ethical practice and data management. Over the course of the semester, students will undertake a series of projects that will build incrementally into a research proposal. We will focus on developing the skills vital to designing archaeological research, starting with the formulation of a question and continuing through the exploratory process of defining proper sites, assemblages, analytical techniques, and presentation of findings. Class sessions will focus on designing research projects examining case studies drawn from world archaeology and student research projects.#
&ANTHR 6255 | Ancient Mexico and Central America&
#An introduction to ancient Mesoamerica, focusing on the nature and development of societies that are arguably the most complex to develop anywhere in the precolumbian Americas. The course provides a summary of the history of the region before the European invasion, but the emphasis is on the organization of Mesoamerican societies: the distinctive features of Mesoamerican cities, economies, political systems, religion. We begin by considering Mesoamerican societies at the time of the Spanish invasion. Our focus will be on descriptions of the Aztecs of Central Mexico by Europeans and indigenous survivors, in an attempt to extract from them a model of the fundamental organizational features of one Mesoamerican society, making allowances for what we can determine about the perspectives and biases of their authors. We then review the precolumbian history of Mesoamerica looking for variations on these themes as well as indications of alternative forms of organization. We will also look at such issues as the transition from mobile to sedentary lifeways, the processes involved in the domestication of plants and animals, the emergence of cities and states, and the use of invasion-period and ethnographic information to interpret precolumbian societies in comparative perspective.#
&ANTHR 6400 | Thinking Media Studies&
#This required seminar for the new graduate minor in media studies considers media from a wide number of perspectives, ranging from the methods of cinema and television studies to those of music, information science, communication, science and technology studies, and beyond. Historical and theoretical approaches to media are intertwined with meta-critical reflections on media studies as an interdisciplinary field of inquiry. Close attention will be paid to media's role in shaping and being shaped by race, ethnicity, class, gender, sexuality, and other politically constructed categories of identity and sociality.#
&ANTHR 6440 | Proposal Development&
#This seminar focuses on preparing a full-scale proposal for anthropological fieldwork for a dissertation. Topics include identifying appropriate funding sources; defining a researchable problem; selecting and justifying a particular fieldwork site; situating the ethnographic case within appropriate theoretical contexts; selecting and justifying appropriate research methodologies; developing a feasible timetable for field research; ethical considerations and human subjects protection procedures; and preparing appropriate budgets. This is a writing seminar, and students will complete a proposal suitable for submission to a major funding agency in the social sciences.#
&ANTHR 6482 | Perspectives on the Nation&
#This course will critically examine the key texts that have informed our understanding of the nation and nationalism. Beginning with some of the founding texts such as Hahn Kohn's The Idea of Nationalism: A Study in its Origins and Backgrounds, Plamenatz's Two Types of Nationalism, and Renan's What is a Nation, we will then move on to more contemporary writings by Gellner, Hobsbawm and Anderson and end with analytical approaches addressing the national question in postcolonial contexts such as Partha Chatterjee's Nationalist Thought and the Colonial World. A central theme will be how culture, power, and history are implicated in the concept of Nation. We will also explore the possibilities of an ethnographic approach to the nation and ask if such an analytical and methodological move may help us better grapple with the perplexing emotive dimension of nationalisms.#
&ANTHR 6729 | Climate, Archaeology and History&
#An introduction to the story of how human history from the earliest times through to the recent period interrelates with changing climate conditions on Earth. The course explores the whole expanse of human history, but concentrates on the most recent 15,000 years through to the Little Ice Age (14th-19th centuries AD). Evidence from science, archaeology and history are brought together to assess how climate has shaped the human story.#
&ANTHR 7013 | Textual Ethnography&
#This course explores the implications and significance of using textual materials as anthropological evidence. While participant observation remains the cornerstone of ethnography, literary, archival, and other written works are increasingly being utilized as primary sources within the anthropological project. This course will hence offer an overview of anthropological works that trace the intersections between cultural production and the literary imagination. Rather than consider the literary elements of ethnography itself, we will strive to understand the disparate forms of social phenomena—both knowledge and practices—that arise from texts and textual practices specifically. Examples include analyses of literary cultures, media forms and non-traditional textual sources, bureaucratic structures, the use of archives, and more. Particular attention will be paid to works based in the Middle East and the Islamic world. By examining the different theoretical, political, and ethical considerations of using the written word as ethnographic evidence, we will be able to shed light on the anthropological project as a whole.#
&ANTHR 7030 | The Caucasus: Captives, Cultures, Conflicts&
#The Caucasus occupies a distinctive place in the historical and cultural imagination, a region long anchored to tropes of disobedience, punishment, and redemption. It is also a place in which liminality, betwixt and between Europe and Asia, endures as both a perceived geographic imaginary and an experienced condition in the detritus of Persian, Ottoman, Russian, and Soviet imperialisms. This course explores the Caucasus through its anthropology, history, and cultural production, with a particular focus on the Russian conquest, Soviet socialism, and the conflicts and capitalist formations of the post-Soviet decades. We will examine the entanglements of the region's history, political economy, and geopolitics in order to get a sense of the array of forces shaping the Caucasus today.#
&ANTHR 7220 | Inkas and their Empire&
#In little more than a century the Inkas created an empire stretching thousands of kilometers along the Andean spine from Ecuador to Chile. This course focuses on the political and economic structure of the empire and on its roots in earlier Andean prehistory. Archaeological remains, along with documents produced in the aftermath of the Spanish invasion, will be used to trace the history of Inka territorial organization, statecraft, and economic relationships and the Colonial transformation of Andean societies.#
&ANTHR 7401 | Advanced Documentary Production&
#This production seminar is for students with basic documentary filmmaking skills who want to work with previously collected footage and/or are in production on a project in or around Ithaca. Over the course of the semester, students complete a documentary film based on an immersive engagement with their selected subject matter. Alongside watching and discussing relevant texts and films, students will complete exercises to help them focus their projects, build a cohesive narrative, learn script writing, brainstorm scene ideas, overcome narrative challenges, discover their aesthetic, and develop a film circulation plan. Students will regularly present new footage and scenes and explain their work in terms their goals for the final project. The course culminates in a public screening of students' independent video projects.#
&ANTHR 7417 | Ecopolitics&
#At this time of planetary instability, all politics are environmental politics. But all environmental politics are not the same. Contemporary movements diverge around key questions: Is technology an environmental boon or an environmental bad? Can sustainable ends be achieved through capitalist means? Who should be endowed with the power to intervene? At what scale, in what ways, on whose behalf? Reading across different ecopolitical formations—conservation, green capitalism, ecosocialism, ecofascism, and more—we ask how "the environment" manages to contain such a capacious field, why it so thoroughly deranges usual political coordinates. Then, we hone tools for thinking critically and hopefully within the mess.#
&ANTHR 7476 | Carceral Worlds: Policing, Prisons, and Securitization&
#Grounded in anthropological and interdisciplinary analyses of policing, prisons, and security, this course aims to account for how carcerality shapes our worlds. Attentive to specificity and variability across place and time, we will consider how carceral logics take hold and expand, and how they are contested and reimagined. We will pay particular attention to the interrelatedness of race and carcerality; lived experiences of carcerality, including those of people imprisoned in various contexts and those engaged in carceral work; the intersections between carcerality and science and technology; and abolitionist frameworks that address the limitations and constitutive oppressions of carcerality as they radically reimagine other possibilities.#
&ANTHR 7489 | Theory and Anthropology from Below: Special Topics&
#This is a semester-long upper division seminar course that will rotate among members of the faculty focusing on different special topics in the fields of abolitionist, critical, and decolonial theories of the social and political.#
&ANTHR 7513 | Religion and Politics in Southeast Asia&
#This course explores how religious beliefs and practices in Southeast Asia have been transformed by the combined forces of colonialism, nationalism, and globalization. By examining both diversity and resurgence in one of the world's most rapidly modernizing regions, we aim to understand the common economic, social, and political conditions that are contributing to the popularity of contemporary religious movements. At the same time, we also consider the unique ideological, theological, and cultural understandings behind different religions and movements. Through this process we also rethink conceptions of modernity.#
&ANTHR 7520 | Southeast Asia: Readings in Special Problems&
#Independent reading course on topics not covered in regularly scheduled courses. Students select a topic in consultation with the faculty member who has agreed to supervise the course work.#
&ANTHR 7530 | South Asia: Readings in Special Problems&
#Independent reading course in topics not covered in regularly scheduled courses. Students select a topic in consultation with the faculty member who has agreed to supervise the course work.#
&ANTHR 7540 | Problems in Himalayan Studies&
#Independent reading course on topics not covered in regularly scheduled courses. Students select a topic in consultation with the faculty member who has agreed to supervise the course work.#
&ANTHR 7550 | East Asia: Readings in Special Problems&
#Independent reading course in topics not covered in regularly scheduled courses. Students select a topic in consultation with the faculty member who has agreed to supervise the course work.#
&ANTHR 7620 | Jewish Cities&
#From Jerusalem to Rome, from Shanghai to Marrakesh, Jews and cities have been shaping each other for thousands of years. This course ranges through time and space to examine how Jewish and other "minority" experiences offer a window onto questions of modernity and post-colonialism in intersections of the built environment with migration, urban space, and memory. Readings and film/video encompass historical, ethnographic, visual, architectural and literary materials to offer a broad look at materials on ghettos, empires, cosmopolitanism, tolerance, immigrant enclaves, race and ethnicity.#
&ANTHR 7682 | Medicine and Healing in Africa&
#Healing and medicine are simultaneously individual and political, biological and cultural. In this class, we will study the expansion of biomedicine in Africa, the continuities and changes embodied in traditional medicine, and the relationship between medicine, science and law. We will explore the questions African therapeutics poses about the intimate ways that power works on and through bodies. Our readings will frame current debates around colonial and postcolonial forms of governance through medicine, the contradictions of humanitarianism and the health crisis in Africa, and the rise of new forms of therapeutic citizenship. We will examine the ways in which Africa is central to the biopolitics of the contemporary global order.#
&ANTHR 7700 | The Jewish Dead&
#We will explore the thesis that far from being dead and therefore gone, the continued presence of the dead is absolutely foundational for the workings of Jewishness. What that "presence" could possibly mean, to us who do not usually think in terms of immortal spirit, will be a central puzzle for our discussions. We will also have scope for consideration of ways in which the continuing "weight" of the dead may inhibit needed change and rethinking. Readings will include selections from the Babylonian Talmud, work in early modern cultural history, and studies of the culture of death and dying in contemporary Jewish communities, including the life and culture of Jewish cemeteries, especially in the New York area.#
&ANTHR 7725 | American Indian Lands and Sovereignties&
#The relationship between North American Indian peoples and the states of Canada and the US is in many ways unique, a product of centuries of trade compacts, treaties, legislation, warfare, land claim negotiations, and Supreme Court decisions. Apparently straightforward concepts such as "land," "property," and "sovereignty," based as they are on European cultural assumptions, often seem inadequate for making sense of the cross-cultural terrain of Indian-State relations, where they tend to take on new – and often ambiguous – meanings. In this course we will explore some of these ambiguous meanings, attending to the cultural realities they reflect and the social relationships they shape. Then we will examine the complex interplay of legal, political, and cultural forces by taking an in-depth look at several selected case studies.#
&ANTHR 7755 | Indigenous Erasure and Resurfacing&
#This seminar examines long-term colonialist processes of erasing Indigenous histories, and recent attempts to bring this heritage back to visibility. We will read texts by Michel-Rolph Trouillot, Jean O'Brien, Patrick Wolfe, Keith Basso, Andrea Lynn Smith, and others. Students will engage in critical analysis of primary sources, Indigenous histories, and monuments related to the American 1779 Sullivan-Clinton invasion of Haudenosaunee (Six Nations Confederacy) territory and also the post-1779 Haudenosaunee reoccupations after the devastation. Student projects will focus on local Indigenous heritage and can include artwork, videos, counter-monument designs, poetry, and prose fiction, as well as more traditional academic research papers.#
&ANTHR 7790 | Latinx Education Across the Americas&
#This course examines Latinx education in comparative perspective, with a focus on transnational communities and cross-border movements that link U.S. Latinx education with Latin American education. We ask: how do legacies of colonialism and empire shape the education of Latinx and Latin American communities? How are race, language, gender, cultural and national identity, and representation negotiated in schools? Drawing on ethnographic studies of education in and out of school, we explore how families and youths create knowledge, do literacy, and respond to cultural diversity, displacement, migration, and inequality. Throughout, we inquire into the potential for a decolonial and transformative education.#
&ANTHR 7900 | Department of Anthropology Colloquium&
#A series of workshops and lectures on a range of themes in the discipline sponsored by the Department of Anthropology. Presentations include lectures by invited speakers, debates featuring prominent anthropologists from across the globe, and works in progress presented by anthropology faculty and graduate students.#
&ANTHR 7910 | Independent Study: Grad I&
#Independent reading course in topics not covered in regularly scheduled courses. Students select a topic in consultation with the faculty member who has agreed to supervise the course work.#
&ANTHR 7920 | Independent Study: Grad II&
#Independent reading course in topics not covered in regularly scheduled courses. Students select a topic in consultation with the faculty member who has agreed to supervise the course work.#
&ANTHR 7930 | Independent Study: Grad III&
#Independent reading course in topics not covered in regularly scheduled courses. Students select a topic in consultation with the faculty member who has agreed to supervise the course work.#


$ARAB | Arabic$
&ARAB 1100 | Gateway to Arabic Language and Culture&
#This course is designed to help students start speaking Arabic from the very first day. This is done in the context of learning about the diverse Arab cultures and reading and writing the beautiful alphabet! Topics include Arab hospitality, holidays, family structure, popular slang and sayings, songs, and more.#
&ARAB 1202 | Elementary Arabic II&
#This two-course sequence assumes no previous knowledge of Arabic and provides a thorough grounding in the four language skills of listening, speaking, reading, and writing. It starts with the alphabet and the number system and builds the four skills gradually and systematically through carefully selected and organized materials focusing on specific, concrete and familiar topics such as self identification, family, travel, food, renting an apartment, study, the weather, etc.). These topics are listed in the textbook's table of contents.  The student who successfully completes the two-course sequence will have mastered about 1000 basic words and will be able to: 1) understand and actively participate in conversations on a limited range of practical topics such as self-identification, family, school, work, the weather, travel, etc., 2) read and understand, with the help of a short list of words, passages of up to 180 words written in Arabic script, and 3) discuss orally in class and write a 50-word paragraph in Arabic.  The two-course sequence aims to take the student from the Novice to the Intermediate Mid level according to the ACTFL proficiency guidelines.#
&ARAB 2202 | Intermediate Arabic II&
#In this two-course sequence learners continue to develop the four language skills of listening, speaking, reading, and writing and grammar foundation through the extensive use of graded materials on a wide variety of topics.  While more attention is given to developing native-like pronunciation and to grammatical accuracy than in ARAB 1201 and ARAB 1202, the main focus of the course will be on encouraging fluency and facility in understanding the language and communicating ideas in it.  The student who successfully completes this two-course sequence will have mastered over 1500 new words and will be able to: 1) understand and actively participate in conversations related to a wide variety of topics beyond those covered in ARAB 1201 and ARAB 1202, such as the history and geography of the Arab world, food and health, sports, economic matters, the environment, politics, the Palestine problem, etc. 2) read and understand, with the help of a short list of words, passages of up to 300 words, and 3) discuss orally in class and write a 150-word paragraph in Arabic with fewer grammatical errors than in ARAB 1202.  The two-course sequence aims to take the student from the Intermediate Mid to the Advanced Mid level according to the ACTFL proficiency guidelines.#
&ARAB 2204 | Introduction to Quranic Arabic&
#This course is designed for students who are interested in reading the language of the Qur'an with accuracy and understanding. The first week (4 classes) will be devoted to an introduction of the history of the Qur'an: the revelation, collection, variant readings, and establishment of an authoritative edition. The last week will be devoted to a general overview of "revisionist" literature on the Qur'an. In the remaining 12 weeks, we will cover all of Part 30 (Juz' 'Amma, suuras 78-114) and three suuras of varying length (36, 19, and 12).#
&ARAB 3202 | Advanced Arabic II&
#In this two-semester sequence, learners will be introduced to authentic, unedited Arabic language materials ranging from short stories, and poems, to newspaper articles dealing with social,  political,  and cultural issues. Emphasis will be on developing fluency in oral expression through discussions of issues presented in the reading and listening selections. There will be more focus on the development of native-like pronunciation and accurate use of grammatical structures than in the previous four courses. A primary objective of the course is the development of the writing skill through free composition exercises in topics of interest to individual students.  This course starts where ARAB 2202 leaves off and continues the development of the four language skills and grammar foundation using 18 themes, some new and some introduced in previous courses but are presented here at a more challenging level.  The student who successfully completes this two-course sequence have mastered over 3000 new words and will be able, within context of the 18 new and recycled themes to: 1) understand and actively participate in conversations, 2) read and understand, with the help of a short list of words, authentic, unedited passages of up to 400 words, and 3) discuss orally in class and write a 300-word paragraph in Arabic with fewer grammatical errors than in ARAB 2202.  The two-course sequence aims to take the student from the Advanced Mid to the Superior level according to the ACTFL proficiency guidelines.#
&ARAB 3700 | Arabic Language Through Film&
#The objective of this course is to help students develop all four communicative skills (listening, speaking, reading and writing) through the use of Arabic films coupled with other structured materials such as study guides, short readings and other authentic resources. Each lesson focuses on student-centered and interactive activities that include pair or group work, role-play, debates, and class presentations.#
&ARAB 5510 | Graduate Studies in Arabic&
#Topics vary by semester in relation to student needs.#


$ARCH | Architecture$
&ARCH 1102 | Design II&
#Continuation of ARCH 1101. Covers human, social, technical, and aesthetic factors related to space and form. Design problems range from those of the immediate environment of the individual to that of small social groups.#
&ARCH 1104 | Elective Design Studio&
#Non sequence design studio for students who are not architecture majors at Cornell and for department students taking design studio for non-sequence credit.#
&ARCH 1612 | Structural Concepts&
#Fundamental concepts of structural behavior. Statics and strength of materials. Introduction to and analysis of simple structural systems.#
&ARCH 1801 | History of Architecture I&
#The history of the built environment as social and cultural expression from the earliest to more recent times. Themes, theories, and ideas in architecture and urban design are explored, beginning with the earliest written records.#
&ARCH 2102 | Design IV&
#Design and development of complex architectural projects situated in urban contexts and developed with regard to program, site, building, and representation, with an emphasis on social justice and community engagement.#
&ARCH 2302 | Architectural Analysis: Architecture, the City, and Landscape&
#Agendas and approaches to the making and reading of urban conditions and landscape designs. The analysis of canonical works and texts, with emphasis on architecture within and without the city as vehicles of study, and with frequent reference to urban and landscape theories and designs, as well as to representations of the city and garden from other media and disciplines.#
&ARCH 2614 | Building Technology I: Materials and Methods&
#Building construction is examined from the following standpoints: life safety (including fire safety and zoning constraints on site planning); building service systems (plumbing, electrical, vertical transportation, security, fire protection); materials, sustainability, and life-cycle analysis; accessibility; technical documentation and outline specifications.#
&ARCH 2615 | Building Technology II: Structural Elements&
#No description available.#
&ARCH 2616 | Environmental Systems II: Building Dynamics&
#This course examines the design and analysis of the building envelope, with a focus on the material and energetic transformations taking place at the boundary between architecture and environment. Topics include: comfort, building thermodynamics, envelope assemblies, thermal modeling, active and passive control systems, daylighting and architectural acoustics.#
&ARCH 3101 | Design V&
#Design and development of complex architectural projects situated in urban contexts and developed with regard to program, site, building, and representation.#
&ARCH 3102 | Design VI&
#Design and development of complex architectural projects situated in urban contexts and developed with regard to program, site, building, and representation.#
&ARCH 3117 | Contemporary Italian Culture - Italian Cinema&
#This course examines the cinematic representation of Italy with particular emphasis to the use of settings and space. We will explore how the visions of urban and rural spaces reflect the evolving cultural, social and political fabric of a nation in a period of rapid and often traumatic historical change. The course will feature screening of films set in several Italian locations, from Rome to Milan, from Naples to Venice, from Sicily to the Apennines, and represent different moments of Italian contemporary history. We will take advantage of the unique opportunity to study this cinema while residing in Rome and traveling in Italy, through the experience of the real settings that have figured so prominently in Italian cinema. Each session consists of an in-class lecture and a film screening. The course will also include one or two guest lecturers each semester.#
&ARCH 3197 | Special Investigations in Architectural Design&
#Independent study.#
&ARCH 3308 | Special Topics in the Theory of Architecture I&
#This course addresses pertinent issues relative to the subject of Theory of Architecture. The instructor(s) of the course are drawn from the permanent and visiting faculty who may either broadly or narrowly define the course's scope and content. Topics vary each semester.#
&ARCH 3397 | Special Investigations in the Theory of Architecture I&
#Independent study.#
&ARCH 3497 | Special Investigations in Architecture, Culture, and Society&
#Independent study.#
&ARCH 3819 | Special Topics in the History of Architecture and Urbanism&
#This course addresses pertinent issues relative to the subject of History of Architecture and Urbanism. The instructor(s) of the course are drawn from the permanent and visiting faculty who may either broadly or narrowly define the course's scope and content. Topics vary each semester.#
&ARCH 3820 | The Topography and Urban History of Rome in Antiquity and the Middle Ages&
#Rome is a prisoner of its past. The entire city confronts the student with almost 30 centuries of urban and architectural history. This course intends to reconstruct the urban history of Rome from its origins through the Middle Ages (10th century bc-12th century ad). The purpose of this course will be to discover the layers of Rome, combining archaeology with literature, architecture, and urban history with art history. The goal is a thorough and direct knowledge of the Roman and Medieval urban landscape and the way this landscape has sometimes survived until today. Special attention will be given to Roman and Medieval building typology, both private and public, and the development of the urban infrastructure (street system, water supply, fortifications, etc.). Strong emphasis will be placed upon continuity, use/reuse, and transformation of buildings and spaces, etc. Every week one or two different "regions" will be explored that are typical for a particular moment of the urban history. Visits to sites outside Rome also will be used to address the issue of urban history in Italy in antiquity and the Middle Ages.#
&ARCH 3823 | Urban Design, Architecture, and Art in Renaissance and Baroque Rome&
#This course focuses on the Renaissance and Baroque phases (15th-18th centuries) of Rome's history. The first class sessions will survey the city's urban history and form from its origins to the present, and we will often turn our attention to earlier and later developments, without an understanding of which the Renaissance and Baroque periods would be only partially intelligible. While the history of urban and architectural design will be our main focus, we will also look at key episodes of painting and sculpture, especially by artists who are also among the principal  architects of these periods (Michelangelo, Bernini).#
&ARCH 3897 | Special Investigations in History of Architecture and Urbanism&
#Independent study.#
&ARCH 4101 | Design VII&
#Advanced programs in architectural design, with options in, but not limited to, urban design, architectural technology, computational design, ecology, culture, and representation.#
&ARCH 4102 | Design VIII&
#Advanced programs in architectural design, with options including, but not limited to, urban design, architectural technology, computational design, ecology, culture, and representation.#
&ARCH 4408 | Special Topics in Architecture, Culture, and Society&
#This course addresses pertinent issues relative to the subject of Architecture, Culture and Society. The instructor(s) of the course are drawn from the permanent and visiting faculty who may either broadly or narrowly define the course's scope and content. Topics vary each semester.#
&ARCH 4508 | Special Investigations in Visual Representation&
#Independent study.#
&ARCH 4509 | Special Topics in Visual Representation I&
#This course addresses pertinent issues relative to the subject of Visual Representation. The instructor(s) of the course are drawn from the permanent and visiting faculty who may either broadly or narrowly define the course's scope and content. Topics vary each semester.#
&ARCH 4605 | Special Topics in Construction&
#This course addresses pertinent issues relative to the subject of Construction. The instructor(s) of the course are drawn from the permanent and visiting faculty who may either broadly or narrowly define the course's scope and content. Topics vary each semester.#
&ARCH 4697 | Special Investigations in Construction&
#Independent study.#
&ARCH 4698 | Special Investigations in Environmental Systems and Conservation&
#Independent study.#
&ARCH 4699 | Special Investigations in Structures&
#Independent study.#
&ARCH 5101 | Design IX&
#Advanced programs in architectural design, with options in, but not limited to, urban design, architectural technology, computational design, ecology, culture, and representation.#
&ARCH 5112 | Core Design Studio II: Relational and Ecological Design&
#Focus on relational and ecological design thinking through interpretive, analytical, programmatic and generative uses of digital media. Emphasis on context, architectonics and systems in the design of a mid-scale building as informed by the analysis of precedents.#
&ARCH 5114 | Core Design Studios IV: Integrative Design Practices&
#Focus on the development of architectural ideas in constructed, material form. The studio explores emergent topics and constructive methods in contemporary architectural practice. Design study includes the creation of a comprehensive set of representations that describes an architectural project in detail. Students work in collaborative groups and in consultation with advisors drawn from professional practice to develop a project that engages a complex range of topical areas, including: structural and environmental systems, building envelope systems, materiality and construction, life-safety planning, and sustainability.#
&ARCH 5115 | Vertical Design Option Studio&
#The New York City vertical studios engage contemporary issues through examining urban and infrastructural issues in relation to ecological, technical, and cultural practices.#
&ARCH 5116 | Vertical Design Option Studio II&
#The vertical studios are topical in nature and engage contemporary issues in architectural practice and research.#
&ARCH 5201 | Professional Practice&
#Examination of organizational and management theories and practices for delivering professional design services. Includes a historic overview of the profession and a review of the architect's responsibilities from the pre-contract phase through cost estimating and specifications to construction. Application of computer technology in preparing specifications.#
&ARCH 5203 | Multicultural Work Environments&
#Independent study. Promotes an understanding of the cultural assumptions we bring to the work environment and the effects of cultural differences on the ways in which architecture is practiced. A 5-10 page paper relates the experience of the internship to one or more texts approved by the instructor. Course may be taken more than once, but a maximum of 1 credit may be used to fulfill departmental free elective distribution requirement.#
&ARCH 5204 | Professional Trajectories&
#How will you self-curate your work trajectory? This class bridges and integrates academia and practice, exploring diverse issues, inclusive of the resiliency of current and long-term career options, whether you are exploring an internship or graduating. Based on lectures, discussions, and coached reflections, you will produce a customized, intentional, designed, integrated, self-specific 'work application' aligned with your interests and values. This is not just a practical class. At its heart, it is an authentic, transparent conversation about 'professional experience' with each other, Cornell alumni and guest panelists. We will discuss a wide range of pathways, leadership, media perception, work culture, compensation, negotiation, teaching, grant writing and competitions. You will write cover letters, resumes, organize portfolios, and film your individual speaking and presenting styles, for a jury and client. The required individual advisory session delves into your professional options by looking holistically at your work and your personal definition of 'value'.#
&ARCH 5302 | Theories and Analyses of Architecture II&
#Continuation of ARCH 5301 focusing on themes in architectural discourse, design, and inquiry from the 1990s to the present, and their creative/critical implications.#
&ARCH 5512 | Constructed Drawing II: Digital Representation and Fabrication&
#Develops understanding of, and proficiency in, projective drawing, in both analog and digital forms. Students continue to develop a variety of digital representation applications, including modeling, rendering, and animation, and scripting.#
&ARCH 5612 | Structural Concepts&
#Fundamental concepts of structural behavior. Statics and strength of materials. Introduction to and analysis of simple structural systems.#
&ARCH 5614 | Building Technology I: Materials and Methods&
#Building construction is examined from the following standpoints: life safety (including fire safety and zoning constraints on site planning); building service systems (plumbing, electrical, vertical transportation, security, fire protection); materials, sustainability, and life-cycle analysis; accessibility; technical documentation and outline specifications.#
&ARCH 5615 | Building Technology II: Structural Elements&
#Concepts and procedures for the design, manufacture, and construction of structural components (e.g., walls, columns, beams, slabs) in steel, concrete, masonry, and timber.#
&ARCH 5616 | Environmental Systems II: Building Dynamics&
#This course examines the design and analysis of the building envelope, with a focus on the material and energetic transformations taking place at the boundary between architecture and environment. Topics include: comfort, building thermodynamics, envelope assemblies, thermal modeling, active and passive control systems, daylighting and architectural acoustics.#
&ARCH 5801 | History of Architecture I&
#The history of the built environment as social and cultural expression from the earliest times to the beginning of the modern period is studied through selected examples from across the world. Themes, theories, and ideas in architecture and urban design are explored through texts, artifacts, buildings, cities, and landscapes.#
&ARCH 5819 | Special Topics in the History of Architecture and Urbanism&
#This course addresses pertinent issues relative to the subject of History of Architecture and Urbanism. The instructor(s) of the course are drawn from the permanent and visiting faculty who may either broadly or narrowly define the course's scope and content. Topics vary each semester.#
&ARCH 5902 | Design X Thesis&
#An independent design project on a topic selected and developed by the student. Marking the transition between academic and professional practices, the thesis project is an opportunity for each student to define an individual position with regard to the discipline of architecture.#
&ARCH 6109 | Special Problems in Design&
#Independent study.#
&ARCH 6132 | Intermediate Applications&
#The second skills-based course introduces a range of opportunities for relationships with data and visualization. Through intensive skill-building modules, students are introduced to the possibilities of range of applications including but not limited to: "big" data, AI / machine learning, procedural generation, time-based interactive applications (video games) / simulation engines, expanded data sources and tools for data scraping, forms of art practice that engage urban data.#
&ARCH 6307 | Special Investigations in the Theory of Architecture II&
#Independent study.#
&ARCH 6308 | Special Topics in the Theory of Architecture II&
#This course addresses pertinent issues relative to the subject of Theory of Architecture. The instructor(s) of the course are drawn from the permanent and visiting faculty who may either broadly or narrowly define the course's scope and content. Topics vary each semester.#
&ARCH 6332 | Theories and Analysis II&
#The second theory course explores the ways that design intersects with the political economic questions of planetary transformation. It considers cultural production in the context of ecology, urbanism, and infrastructure broadly construed, including, for example, theories and practices of social and environmental ecology.#
&ARCH 6408 | Special Topics in Architecture, Culture, and Society&
#This course addresses pertinent issues relative to the subject of Architecture, Culture and Society. The instructor(s) of the course are drawn from the permanent and visiting faculty who may either broadly or narrowly define the course's scope and content. For precise content, please see the Architecture Department webpage.#
&ARCH 6409 | Graduate Investigations in Architecture, Culture, and Society&
#Independent study.#
&ARCH 6508 | Special Investigations in Visual Representation II&
#Independent study.#
&ARCH 6509 | Special Topics in Visual Representation II&
#This course addresses pertinent issues relative to the subject of Visual Representation. The instructor(s) of the course are drawn from the permanent and visiting faculty who may either broadly or narrowly define the course's scope and content. Topics vary each semester.#
&ARCH 6605 | Special Topics in Construction&
#This course addresses pertinent issues relative to the subject of Construction. The instructor(s) of the course are drawn from the permanent and visiting faculty who may either broadly or narrowly define the course's scope and content. For precise content, please see the Architecture Department webpage.#
&ARCH 6609 | Special Investigations in Structures&
#Independent study.#
&ARCH 6805 | Practicum&
#This course exercises history of architecture and urbanism's capacities for affecting contemporary events through critical associations with the past. The workshop culminates in an exhibition, publication, symposium, curricular initiative, or other public occasion. Enrollment of qualified graduate students from associated fields is encouraged.#
&ARCH 6819 | Seminar in Special Topics in the History of Architecture and Urbanism&
#This course addresses pertinent issues relative to the subject of History of Architecture and Urbanism. The instructor(s) of the course are drawn from the permanent and visiting faculty who may either broadly or narrowly define the course's scope and content. Topics vary each semester.#
&ARCH 7101 | Problems in Architecture Design&
#Independent study.#
&ARCH 7111 | Design A&
#Exploration of themes, methods, and technologies in contemporary design.#
&ARCH 7112 | Design B: Topic Studio&
#Advanced programs in architectural design, with options in, but not limited to, urban design, architectural technology, computational design, ecology, culture, and representation.#
&ARCH 7113 | Design C: Topic Studio&
#Advanced programs in architectural design, with options in, but not limited to, urban design, architectural technology, computational design, ecology, culture, and representation.#
&ARCH 7132 | Studio II: Application&
#The second studio develops skills from the Foundation semester by working with guest instructor(s) on topics related to the concerns of the program. Projects are speculative in nature, offering opportunity to work more experimentally to develop students' own project but within a context at least partially defined by guest critic.#
&ARCH 7152 | Design Topic Research Studio II: Matter Design Computation&
#Continuation of subjects developed in the first term. Focus is on research methods in matter design computation.#
&ARCH 7809 | Graduate Independent Study in the History of Architecture and Urbanism&
#Independent study.#
&ARCH 7903 | Thesis or Research in Architectural Science&
#Independent study.#
&ARCH 8903 | Projects in Advanced Architectural Design&
#Final project documentation drawing on work from ARCH 7111, ARCH 7112, and ARCH 7113 design studios as well as from the four courses representing the student's territory of investigation (TI) — discourse, ecology, representation, or urbanism — that demonstrate expertise in the student's TI.#
&ARCH 8905 | Independent Design Thesis: Matter Design Computation&
#An independent design project on a topic selected and developed by the student and researched in ARCH 8151. Marking the transition between academic and professional practices, the objective of the thesis project is for each student to define an individual position with regard to the discipline and practice of architecture in the context of matter design computation.#
&ARCH 8906 | Thesis in Advanced Architectural Design I&
#Independent study.#
&ARCH 8907 | Thesis in Advanced Architectural Design II&
#Independent study.#
&ARCH 8911 | Proseminar in Design Research&
#This course offers a synthesis of design and research methods for the development of an independent thesis proposal. Course work includes exposure to different theories and practices of design inquiry, explorations of critical positions for individual development, and preparation of a document encapsulating research leading to a thesis proposition. Successful completion of the course, which includes approval of the thesis document, is a prerequisite for advancement into ARCH 8912 - Independent Design Thesis.#
&ARCH 8912 | Independent Design Thesis&
#An independent design project on a topic selected and developed by the student and researched in ARCH 8911. Marking the transition between academic and professional practices, the thesis project is an opportunity for each student to define an individual position with regard to the discipline of architecture.#
&ARCH 9901 | Ph.D. Dissertation in the History of Architecture and Urbanism&
#Independent study for the doctoral degree.#


$ARKEO | Archaeology$
&ARKEO 2661 | Ancient Ships and Seafaring: Introduction to Nautical Archaeology&
#A survey of the history and development of ships and seafaring as revealed by shipwrecks, boat burials, texts, art, and other evidence. The role of nautical technology and seafaring among the maritime peoples of the ancient Mediterranean world-Canaanites, Minoans, Mycenaeans, Phoenicians, Hebrews, Greeks, and Romans-and the riverine cultures of Mesopotamia and Egypt is addressed. The survey stretches from the earliest evidence for Mediterranean seafaring around 10,000 bce to the first transatlantic voyages in the 15th century, including Arab, Viking, and European explorers, and the birth of modern capitalism in the Italian Maritime Republics. Along the way, economics, war, exploration, cult, life at sea, and colonization are discussed.#
&ARKEO 2688 | Cleopatra's Egypt: Tradition and Transformation&
#Following the conquests of Alexander, the ancient civilization of Egypt came under Greek rule. This period is best known for its famous queen Cleopatra, the last independent ruler of ancient Egypt. But even before Cleopatra's life and death, the Egypt that she governed was a fascinating place – and a rich case study in cultural interactions under ancient imperialism. This course explores life in Egypt under Greek rule, during the three centuries known as the Ptolemaic period (named after Cleopatra's family, the Ptolemaic dynasty). We will examine the history and culture of Ptolemaic Egypt, an empire at the crossroads of Africa, the Near East, and the Mediterranean. We will explore the experiences of Egyptians, Greeks, and others living in this multi-cultural, multi-ethnic, and multi-linguistic society. Finally, we will investigate the ways that Ptolemaic Egypt can shed light on modern experiences of imperialism, colonialism, and globalization.#
&ARKEO 2720 | From the Swampy Land: Indigenous People of the Ithaca Area&
#Who lived in the Ithaca area before American settlers and Cornell arrived? Where do these indigenous peoples reside today? This class explores the history and culture of the Gayogoho:no (Cayuga), which means people from the mucky land. We will read perspectives by indigenous authors, as well as archaeologists and historians, about past and current events, try to understand reasons why that history has been fragmented and distorted by more recent settlers, and delve into primary sources documenting encounters between settlers and the Gayogoho:no. We will also strive to understand the ongoing connections of the Gayogoho:no to this region despite forced dispossession and several centuries of colonialist exclusion from these lands and waters.#
&ARKEO 2729 | Climate, Archaeology and History&
#An introduction to the story of how human history from the earliest times through to the recent period interrelates with changing climate conditions on Earth. The course explores the whole expanse of human history, but concentrates on the most recent 15,000 years through to the Little Ice Age (14th-19th centuries AD). Evidence from science, archaeology and history are brought together to assess how climate has shaped the human story.#
&ARKEO 3000 | Undergraduate Independent Study in Archaeology and Related Fields&
#Undergraduate students pursue topics of particular interest under the guidance of a faculty member.#
&ARKEO 3235 | Bioarchaeology&
#Bioarchaeology is the study of human remains from archaeological sites. Like forensic scientists at the scene of the crime, bioarchaeologists search for clues embedded in human bone and mummified tissues to reconstruct how ancient peoples lived and died. As a dynamic living system, the human skeleton responds not only to hormones that govern human development but also to physiological stress brought on by disease, malnutrition, and trauma. The human body is also an artifact molded by cultural understandings of gender, prestige, self-expression, and violence. In this course, students will learn the scientific techniques for estimating skeletal age and sex, diagnosing pathology, and reconstructing diet and migration patterns. This course emphasizes the critical integration of biological and cultural evidence for understanding past individuals and societies.#
&ARKEO 3245 | Across the Seas: Contacts between the Americas and the Old World Before Columbus&
#This course considers the possibility of connections between the America and the Old World before the Spanish discovery not only as an empirical question, but also as an intensely controversial issue that has tested the limits of the scholarly detachment that archaeologists imagine characterizes their perspectives. We will consider the evidence for several possible episodes of interaction as well as the broader issue of how long-distance interaction can be recognized in the archaeological record.  Transoceanic contact is a common element in popular visions of the American past, but most professional archaeologists have rejected the possibility with great vehemence.  The issue provides an interesting case study in the power of orthodoxy in archaeology.#
&ARKEO 3255 | Ancient Mexico and Central America&
#An introduction to ancient Mesoamerica, focusing on the nature and development of societies that are arguably the most complex to develop anywhere in the precolumbian Americas. The course provides a summary of the history of the region before the European invasion, but the emphasis is on the organization of Mesoamerican societies: the distinctive features of Mesoamerican cities, economies, political systems, religion. We begin by considering Mesoamerican societies at the time of the Spanish invasion. Our focus will be on descriptions of the Aztecs of Central Mexico by Europeans and indigenous survivors, in an attempt to extract from them a model of the fundamental organizational features of one Mesoamerican society, making allowances for what we can determine about the perspectives and biases of their authorsWe then review the precolumbian history of Mesoamerica looking for variations on these themes as well as indications of alternative forms of organization. We will also look at such issues as the transition from mobile to sedentary lifeways, the processes involved in the domestication of plants and animals, the emergence of cities and states, and the use of invasion-period and ethnographic information to interpret precolumbian societies in comparative perspective.#
&ARKEO 3550 | Origins of Monotheism&
#The Purpose of this course is to trace the development of Monotheism from its origins in Israelite/Canaanite polytheism. We will examine worship of the God, Yahweh and other deities in ancient Israel, and will trace the long and complicated process by which Yahweh became the sole deity to be formally accepted within Judaism. Using biblical evidence as well as inscriptional and archaeological evidence from Israel and elsewhere in the ancient Near East, we will address the question of why the Israelites eventually rejected deities such as Baal, Asherah, El and others, and how imagery associated with these deities informs biblical descriptions of Yahweh. We will explore the ways in which a small group of Jerusalem elites helped shape the monotheistic tradition that has been inherited in the West, and will consider the political, social and theological implications of this transformation.#
&ARKEO 3588 | Archaeology and the Bible&
#The purpose of the course is to place the Bible within the context of a larger ancient world that can be explored by systematic excavation of physical remains. Students will become familiar with archaeological excavations and finds from ancient Syria-Palestine from 10,000 bce to 586 bce. We will explore this archaeological evidence on its own terms, taking into consideration factors such as archaeological method and the interpretive frameworks in which the excavators themselves work, as well as the implications of this body of evidence for understanding the complexity and diversity of biblical Israel.#
&ARKEO 4220 | Inkas and their Empire&
#In little more than a century the Inkas created an empire stretching thousands of kilometers along the Andean spine from Ecuador to Chile. This course focuses on the political and economic structure of the empire and on its roots in earlier Andean prehistory. Archaeological remains, along with documents produced in the aftermath of the Spanish invasion, will be used to trace the history of Inka territorial organization, statecraft, and economic relationships and the Colonial transformation of Andean societies.#
&ARKEO 4354 | Byzantine Archaeology&
#A seminar on the archaeology of the Byzantine Empire, from the late Roman through to the early modern periods. Topics to be covered include: long-term changes in settlement patterns and urban development; the material traces of state and monastic control over productive landscapes; the idea of the border and the nature of its defense; and the fraught relationship between "Byzantine" and "classical" archaeologies.#
&ARKEO 4755 | Indigenous Erasure and Resurfacing&
#This seminar examines long-term colonialist processes of erasing Indigenous histories, and recent attempts to bring this heritage back to visibility. We will read texts by Michel-Rolph Trouillot, Jean O'Brien, Patrick Wolfe, Keith Basso, Andrea Lynn Smith, and others. Students will engage in critical analysis of primary sources, Indigenous histories, and monuments related to the American 1779 Sullivan-Clinton invasion of Haudenosaunee (Six Nations Confederacy) territory and also the post-1779 Haudenosaunee reoccupations after the devastation. Student projects will focus on local Indigenous heritage and can include artwork, videos, counter-monument designs, poetry, and prose fiction, as well as more traditional academic research papers.#
&ARKEO 4981 | Honors Thesis Research&
#Independent work under the close guidance of a faculty member.#
&ARKEO 4982 | Honors Thesis Write-Up&
#The student, under faculty direction, will prepare a senior thesis.#
&ARKEO 6000 | Graduate Independent Study in Archaeology&
#Graduate students pursue advanced topics of particular interest under the guidance of faculty member(s).#
&ARKEO 6100 | The Craft of Archaeology&
#This course engages students in Archaeology and related fields in a semester-long discussion of the craft of archaeology with the faculty of the Cornell Institute of Archaeology and Material Studies. Each week, a different faculty member will moderate a conversation on the professional skills vital to the modern practice of archaeological research and the tools key to professionalization. Seminar topics include developing a research project and working with museum collections to matters of pedagogy and career development.#
&ARKEO 6235 | Bioarchaeology&
#Bioarchaeology is the study of human remains from archaeological sites. Like forensic scientists at the scene of the crime, bioarchaeologists search for clues embedded in human bone and mummified tissues to reconstruct how ancient peoples lived and died. As a dynamic living system, the human skeleton responds not only to hormones that govern human development but also to physiological stress brought on by disease, malnutrition, and trauma. The human body is also an artifact molded by cultural understandings of gender, prestige, self-expression, and violence. In this course, students will learn the scientific techniques for estimating skeletal age and sex, diagnosing pathology, and reconstructing diet and migration patterns. This course emphasizes the critical integration of biological and cultural evidence for understanding past individuals and societies.#
&ARKEO 6245 | Across the Seas: Contacts between the Americas and the Old World Before Columbus&
#This course considers the possibility of connections between the America and the Old World before the Spanish discovery not only as an empirical question, but also as an intensely controversial issue that has tested the limits of the scholarly detachment that archaeologists imagine characterizes their perspectives. We will consider the evidence for several possible episodes of interaction as well as the broader issue of how long-distance interaction can be recognized in the archaeological record.  Transoceanic contact is a common element in popular visions of the American past, but most professional archaeologists have rejected the possibility with great vehemence.  The issue provides an interesting case study in the power of orthodoxy in archaeology.#
&ARKEO 6250 | Archaeological Research Design&
#This studio-style seminar provides an in-depth examination of the principles and practices of archaeological research design. We will examine all aspects of the research process, from concept formation, to methodology, to ethical practice and data management. Over the course of the semester, students will undertake a series of projects that will build incrementally into a research proposal. We will focus on developing the skills vital to designing archaeological research, starting with the formulation of a question and continuing through the exploratory process of defining proper sites, assemblages, analytical techniques, and presentation of findings. Class sessions will focus on designing research projects examining case studies drawn from world archaeology and student research projects.#
&ARKEO 6255 | Ancient Mexico and Central America&
#An introduction to ancient Mesoamerica, focusing on the nature and development of societies that are arguably the most complex to develop anywhere in the precolumbian Americas. The course provides a summary of the history of the region before the European invasion, but the emphasis is on the organization of Mesoamerican societies: the distinctive features of Mesoamerican cities, economies, political systems, religion. We begin by considering Mesoamerican societies at the time of the Spanish invasion. Our focus will be on descriptions of the Aztecs of Central Mexico by Europeans and indigenous survivors, in an attempt to extract from them a model of the fundamental organizational features of one Mesoamerican society, making allowances for what we can determine about the perspectives and biases of their authors. We then review the precolumbian history of Mesoamerica looking for variations on these themes as well as indications of alternative forms of organization. We will also look at such issues as the transition from mobile to sedentary lifeways, the processes involved in the domestication of plants and animals, the emergence of cities and states, and the use of invasion-period and ethnographic information to interpret precolumbian societies in comparative perspective.#
&ARKEO 6354 | Byzantine Archaeology&
#A seminar on the archaeology of the Byzantine Empire, from the late Roman through to the early modern periods. Topics to be covered include: long-term changes in settlement patterns and urban development; the material traces of state and monastic control over productive landscapes; the idea of the border and the nature of its defense; and the fraught relationship between "Byzantine" and "classical" archaeologies.#
&ARKEO 6729 | Climate, Archaeology and History&
#An introduction to the story of how human history from the earliest times through to the recent period interrelates with changing climate conditions on Earth. The course explores the whole expanse of human history, but concentrates on the most recent 15,000 years through to the Little Ice Age (14th-19th centuries AD). Evidence from science, archaeology and history are brought together to assess how climate has shaped the human story.#
&ARKEO 7220 | Inkas and their Empire&
#In little more than a century the Inkas created an empire stretching thousands of kilometers along the Andean spine from Ecuador to Chile. This course focuses on the political and economic structure of the empire and on its roots in earlier Andean prehistory. Archaeological remains, along with documents produced in the aftermath of the Spanish invasion, will be used to trace the history of Inka territorial organization, statecraft, and economic relationships and the Colonial transformation of Andean societies.#
&ARKEO 7271 | The Aegean and East Mediterranean Bronze Age c. 3000-1000 BCE&
#An exploration of the archaeology and art of the Aegean region and of its neighbors during the Bronze Age, ca. 3000-1000 BCE: the origins and precursors of the Classical World. The course will investigate the emergence of the first complex societies in the Aegean region in the third millennium BCE, and then the development and story of the Minoan and Mycenaean worlds and their neighbors in the second millennium BCE. Topics will include: the Early Bronze Age and the first complex societies in the Aegean (Cyclades, Crete, Greece, Anatolia); the collapse and reorientation around 2200BCE and links with climate change; the first palace civilization of (Minoan) Crete; the Santorini (Thera) volcanic eruption and its historical impact in the Aegean and eastern Mediterranean; the rise of the Mycenaean Greek palaces and the shift into proto-history; the development of an international east Mediterranean trade system; Ahhiyawa and the Hittites; the 'Trojan War'; and the collapse of the Late Bronze Age societies and links with climate change.#
&ARKEO 7755 | Indigenous Erasure and Resurfacing&
#This seminar examines long-term colonialist processes of erasing Indigenous histories, and recent attempts to bring this heritage back to visibility. We will read texts by Michel-Rolph Trouillot, Jean O'Brien, Patrick Wolfe, Keith Basso, Andrea Lynn Smith, and others. Students will engage in critical analysis of primary sources, Indigenous histories, and monuments related to the American 1779 Sullivan-Clinton invasion of Haudenosaunee (Six Nations Confederacy) territory and also the post-1779 Haudenosaunee reoccupations after the devastation. Student projects will focus on local Indigenous heritage and can include artwork, videos, counter-monument designs, poetry, and prose fiction, as well as more traditional academic research papers.#
&ARKEO 8902 | Master's Thesis&
#Students, working individually with faculty member(s), prepare a master's thesis in archaeology.#


$ART | Art$
&ART 1201 | Painting for Non-Majors&
#Studies the language of painting through color, form, materials, and techniques. Aspects of traditional and modern pictorial composition are studied including proportion, space, and color theory through the representation of a variety of subjects.#
&ART 1501 | Drawing for Non-Majors&
#This foundation drawing course introduces students to a broad range of conceptual and technical approaches. It introduces traditional and nontraditional materials, and covers diverse pictorial strategies and subject matter. A significant component is exposure to art historical precedents. This course also serves as an introduction to critique techniques and to the discipline of maintaining a journal.#
&ART 1504 | Introduction to Drawing in Rome&
#This course introduces students to principles and techniques of representation. Emphasis is on creating the illusion of space and form through line, the rendering of light and shade, and studies in perspective. Students have the opportunity to explore various media such as charcoal, chalk, pencil, pen, ink, and wash. Assumes no prior knowledge of drawing.#
&ART 1602 | Introduction to Photography in Rome&
#Drawing on Rome's historic and contemporary resources for inspiration, this course introduces photography as a means to visual interpretation and authorship. It addresses concepts essential to lens based artistic practice, as well as the technical foundations of digital photography. In this course students learn about diverse approaches to image making with the camera, and develop a body of work referencing their Rome experience. The course includes lectures, critiques, studio assignments, and visits to museums, galleries, and photography studios.#
&ART 2103 | First-Year Studio Research Workshop&
#This course considers the social, cultural, economic, political, and art historical influences that define and redefine contemporary art and artists in the twenty-first century. First year BFA students will be introduced to art as a dynamic aesthetic, analytical, subjective and social form of expression, communication, thought and material production. A wide range of works and ideas and approaches will be explored taking a non-hierarchal approach.#
&ART 2201 | Painting: Language of Painting&
#This course is an introduction to understanding how the embodied process of painting can create meaning and resonance and provide possibilities of expression where words are not sufficient. Through focus on color theory and pictorial composition, students will explore ways to build their own visual vocabulary while gaining technical facility and knowledge of materials and processes.#
&ART 2301 | Print Media: The Cultures of Print&
#This is an inclusive course that offers an expanded study of traditional printmaking processes through experimental print media. Print media is a critical practice grounded in the history of all printed matter and the printed form as a social medium. Students will participate in a comprehensive range of technical and aesthetic approaches centered in a range of strategies including the art work as multiple, digital and cultural production.#
&ART 2401 | Introduction to Sculpture&
#This course introduces students to artistic practice in three dimensions using a variety of materials and approaches. Problems require the student to address materials in terms of cultural and historical context. Assumes no prior knowledge of sculpture.#
&ART 2601 | Photography: Introduction to Photography&
#This course explores camera and lens as devices that frame and translate three-dimensional space to a two-dimensional surface. Through assignments and individual investigation, students acquire a deeper understanding of visual perception and photography as medium for personal expression. This course introduces students to photographic processes and assumes no prior knowledge of photography.#
&ART 2701 | Media Arts, Performance, and Sound: Intersections&
#This interdisciplinary course offers an introduction to the methods employed in media arts, sound and performance. It provides a comprehensive exploration of the strategies and historical context of these disciplines. Students will engage in an interdisciplinary studio setting with a specific focus on one of these areas. Through hands-on experience, they will delve into contemporary artistic practices, honing their technical skills to develop and realize their creative projects. Potential topics covered include video and animation, digital image production, sound art, performance art, and movement#
&ART 3006 | Advanced Practice&
#This class will concentrate on the development, through research and material experimentation, of a studio practice informed by historical and social context. Different research and production methodologies will be encouraged to develop a practice that is critical, self-sustaining, and flexible. This course is conceived as an introduction to the concentrated studio practice developed further in the following two thesis semesters.#
&ART 3011 | LAND: Art, Ecology and Environmental Activism&
#In this moment of climate collapse, the relationship of art to the land has an urgent new meaning. LAND surveys artist's engagement with land from a material, historical, spiritual and political perspective including transcendentalism, land art, earthworks, neighborhood-based projects, to eco arts and activism culminating in collaborative site-specific projects. Students will learn about local ecologies, and the plant and animal life that their projects will intersect with and serve. This class will participate in the physical cultivation and maintenance of a mini-forest which will require digging, planting, as well as other tending and doing connected to a web of sustainable artist-initiated land-based works. Students can expect to spend time outdoors at off-campus locations.#
&ART 3091 | Directed Readings in Art&
#Independent reading allows a student the opportunity to investigate special interests that are not treated in regularly scheduled courses. The student develops a plan of study to pursue under the supervision of a faculty member.#
&ART 3092 | Independent Studio in Art&
#Independent studio allows a student the opportunity to investigate special interests that are not treated in regularly scheduled courses. The student develops a plan of study to pursue under the supervision of a faculty member.#
&ART 3093 | Directed Research in Art&
#Independent research allows a student the opportunity to investigate special interests that are not treated in regularly scheduled courses. The student develops a plan of study to pursue under the supervision of a faculty member.#
&ART 3104 | Sound, Music, Public Space&
#What do we learn when we turn an ear to the commons? Who determines what sounds are desirable or undesirable in a community and what are the stakes of that negotiation when it comes to public space? This seminar will study the ways that individuals and communities use sound and music to self-identify, claim space, and shape their public spaces. We will engage the work of artists who have called our attention to the social aspects of listening. We will listen to public art projects, films, concerts, field recordings, installations, informal sonic practices, and political interventions as we read about the contested control of public space.#
&ART 3299 | Painting: Special Topics&
#Topics TBA.#
&ART 3307 | Print Media: To Publish is to Make Publics&
#This class will explore the potential of printed media to bridge the gap between public and private modes of address. This course will integrate theory, history and practice. On the production side, we will learn how to use a Risograph printer to make high volume editions and book binding techniques. On the historical side, we will study histories of printmaking as they relate to social and political movements. On the theoretical side, the course will be contextualized through readings that will expand our understanding of what we mean by public, private and circulation. This course welcomes all and any student regardless of their previous print or image making experience.#
&ART 3399 | Print Media: Special Topics&
#Topics TBA.#
&ART 3499 | Sculpture: Special Topics&
#Topics TBA.#
&ART 3502 | Drawing: The Body&
#This course investigates the human body as a pictorial subject. Emphasis is placed on the development of descriptive methodologies reinforced by a study of human surface anatomy and historic/contemporary applications. Relevance to a wide range of visual disciplines including sculpture, photography, digital media in addition to painting and drawing will be explored.#
&ART 3503 | Drawing as Research&
#This course focuses on the use of drawing as a way to organize and refine the conceptual and formal considerations central to each student's individual lines of inquiry regardless of his/her primary medium/discipline/field. While looking at the role of drawing in contemporary art as well as its potential as an interdisciplinary practice, we will explore various drawing approaches that can both problematize and clarify the research process. Emphasis is placed on developing strategies to re-present nonvisual and/or immaterial conditions and information. Projects will be explorations of the prompts from assigned texts and will often incorporate collaborative exchanges as a form of action-based critique.#
&ART 3699 | Photography: Special Topics&
#Advanced studio course related to photography. Topics vary each semester.#
&ART 3707 | Media Arts, Performance, and Sound: Interaction&
#How does interaction change the artwork and the experiencer? In the course models of interactivity specific to sound, performance, and media art will be explored. Historical to contemporary ways that artists have used the notion of interactivity will be examined alongside emergent practices shaped by fields outside of art.#
&ART 3803 | Art History: Italian Cinema&
#This course examines the cinematic representation of Italy with particular emphasis to the use of settings and space. We will explore how the visions of urban and rural spaces reflect the evolving cultural, social and political fabric of a nation in a period of rapid and often traumatic historical change. The course will feature screening of films set in several Italian locations, from Rome to Milan, from Naples to Venice, from Sicily to the Apennines, and represent different moments of Italian contemporary history. We will take advantage of the unique opportunity to study this cinema while residing in Rome and traveling in Italy, through the experience of the real settings that have figured so prominently in Italian cinema. Each session consists of an in-class lecture and a film screening. The course will also include one or two guest lecturers each semester.#
&ART 4003 | Thesis I&
#This course continues the independent studio research and production of the Advanced Practice course to prepare students for ART 4004 - Thesis II. During Thesis I, students begin to research, develop, and clarify their thesis proposals through dialogues, readings, and critiques with members of the Core Thesis Faculty. Emphasis is on deepening awareness of the intention and reading of the work and situating individual interests within and against historical, theoretical, and conceptual contexts.#
&ART 4004 | Thesis II&
#This course is the final B.F.A. studio semester in which students develop and present an independent body of work that may take the form of an exhibition or some other project. Students will work with members of the Core Thesis Faculty to define and refine the positions formulated within each work and to foster the ability to speak about one's own work as well as the work of others. Emphasis is placed on developing strategies of productive self-criticality to inform their work both during and beyond the thesis semester.#
&ART 5011 | LAND: Art, Ecology and Environmental Activism&
#In this moment of climate collapse, the relationship of art to the land has an urgent new meaning. LAND surveys artist's engagement with land from a material, historical, spiritual and political perspective including transcendentalism, land art, earthworks, neighborhood-based projects, to eco arts and activism culminating in collaborative site-specific projects. Students will learn about local ecologies, and the plant and animal life that their projects will intersect with and serve. This class will participate in the physical cultivation and maintenance of a mini-forest which will require digging, planting, as well as other tending and doing connected to a web of sustainable artist-initiated land-based works. Students can expect to spend time outdoors at off-campus locations.#
&ART 5092 | Graduate Independent Studio in Art&
#Independent studio allows a student the opportunity to investigate special interests that are sometimes not treated in regularly scheduled courses. The student develops a plan of study to pursue under the supervision of an Art faculty member.#
&ART 5100 | Image Text Field Practicum&
#Professional development practicum organized around presentations and individual and small group critiques with writers, artists, curators, collectors, gallerists, editors, publishers and other relevant professionals.  Conducted in New York, Rome, or other locations.#
&ART 5104 | Sound, Music, Public Space&
#What do we learn when we turn an ear to the commons? Who determines what sounds are desirable or undesirable in a community and what are the stakes of that negotiation when it comes to public space? This seminar will study the ways that individuals and communities use sound and music to self-identify, claim space, and shape their public spaces. We will engage the work of artists who have called our attention to the social aspects of listening. We will listen to public art projects, films, concerts, field recordings, installations, informal sonic practices, and political interventions as we read about the contested control of public space.#
&ART 5299 | Painting: Special Topics&
#Topics TBA.#
&ART 5307 | Print Media: To Publish is to Make Publics&
#This class will explore the potential of printed media to bridge the gap between public and private modes of address. This course will integrate theory, history and practice. On the production side, we will learn how to use a Risograph printer to make high volume editions and book binding techniques. On the historical side, we will study histories of printmaking as they relate to social and political movements. On the theoretical side, the course will be contextualized through readings that will expand our understanding of what we mean by public, private and circulation. This course welcomes all and any student regardless of their previous print or image making experience.#
&ART 5399 | Print Media: Special Topics&
#Topics TBA.#
&ART 5499 | Sculpture: Special Topics&
#Topics TBA.#
&ART 5502 | Drawing: The Body&
#This course investigates the human body as a pictorial subject. Emphasis is placed on the development of descriptive methodologies reinforced by a study of human surface anatomy and historic/contemporary applications. Relevance to a wide range of visual disciplines including sculpture, photography, digital media in addition to painting and drawing will be explored.#
&ART 5503 | Drawing as Research&
#This course focuses on the use of drawing as a way to organize and refine the conceptual and formal considerations central to each student's individual lines of inquiry regardless of his/her primary medium/discipline/field. While looking at the role of drawing in contemporary art as well as its potential as an interdisciplinary practice, we will explore various drawing approaches that can both problematize and clarify the research process. Emphasis is placed on developing strategies to re-present nonvisual and/or immaterial conditions and information. Projects will be explorations of the prompts from assigned texts and will often incorporate collaborative exchanges as a form of action-based critique.#
&ART 5699 | Photography: Special Topics&
#Advanced studio course related to photography. Topics vary each semester.#
&ART 5707 | Media Arts, Performance, and Sound: Interaction&
#How does interaction change the artwork and the experiencer? In the course models of interactivity specific to sound, performance, and media art will be explored. Historical to contemporary ways that artists have used the notion of interactivity will be examined alongside emergent practices shaped by fields outside of art.#
&ART 6000 | Graduate Seminar: Contemporary Theory and Art&
#Seminar exploring selected writings on current issues in the visual arts. Designed to introduce graduate students to several approaches to critical inquiry and analysis of contemporary artistic practice. Topics vary but may include related issues in areas such as critical theory, identity politics, institutional frames, sustainability, urbanization, and globalization.#
&ART 6092 | Independent Mentored Study in Image Text&
#Semester-long independent creative work in consultation with faculty mentor.  Critique and discussion of ongoing creative work is completed during the fall and spring semesters using video conferencing and electronic document exchange. Course plan will be crafted collaboratively by student and faculty mentor at the beginning of each semester to maximize both continued focus and new development in creative work.#
&ART 6100 | Professional Practice and Field Work in Contemporary Art&
#This required graduate course will focus on developing each student's individual needs in preparation for a life-long artistic and professional practice. We will workshop artist statements, grant and residency proposals and hone writing skills with emphasis on both professional and creative modalities. In addition to one-on-one meetings and studio visits, the graduates will meet as a group to develop and cultivate our community with activities such as field trips to NYC to visit artist studios, galleries and museums; and other art destinations. We will write the press release for the show, establish a title and theme, work with the gallery on social media publicity and outreach, design a poster/flyer and all other aspects of curating/installing and publicizing an art exhibit. A final deliverable for this class is a group show in NYC.#
&ART 7002 | Graduate Studio II&
#Under faculty direction, students plan their own projects and select the media in which they work. All members of the faculty rotate through student studios to provide critiques and are available for individual consultation.#
&ART 8002 | Graduate Studio IV&
#Course instructor is the chair of student's Thesis Committee. Students are responsible, under faculty direction, for planning their own projects and selecting the media in which they work. All members of the faculty are available for individual consultation.#


$ARTH | History of Art$
&ARTH 2000 | Introduction to Visual Studies&
#This course provides an introduction to modes of vision and the historical impact of visual images, visual structures, and visual space on culture, communication, and politics. It examines all aspects of culture that communicate through visual means, including 20th-century visual technologies—photography, cinema, video, etc., and their historical corollaries. The production and consumption of images, objects, and events is studied in diverse cultures. Students develop the critical skills necessary to appreciate how the approaches that define visual studies complicate traditional models of defining and analyzing art objects.#
&ARTH 2355 | Introduction to Medieval Art and Culture&
#Survey lecture course covering the creation, encoding, and reception of Medieval (roughly AD 500-1500) European, Byzantine, and Islamic architecture, ornament, manuscripts, liturgical and luxury objects.  The approach is thematic but chronologically grounded; attention is also given to cultural interaction in the Mediterranean basin.#
&ARTH 2750 | Introduction to Humanities&
#These seminars offer an introduction to the humanities by exploring historical, cultural, social, and political themes. Students will explore themes in critical dialogue with a range of texts and media drawn from the arts, humanities, and/or humanistic social sciences. Guest speakers, including Cornell faculty and Society for the Humanities Fellows, will present from different disciplines and points of view. Students will make field trips to relevant local sites and visit Cornell special collections and archives. Students enrolled in these seminars will have the opportunity to participate in additional programming related to the annual focus theme of Cornell's Society for the Humanities and the Humanities Scholars Program for undergraduate humanities research.#
&ARTH 2805 | Introduction to Asian Art: Material Worlds&
#Trade in and to Asia proved to be a key force in creating our modern "globalized" world. The Indian Ocean and the China Seas converged on Southeast Asia, where a cosmopolitan array of ships from every shore plied their trade, set sail, and returned with the monsoon winds. People, goods, and ideas also traveled on camelback across the undulating contours of the Gobi Desert, connecting India, the Near East and Central Asia with China, Korea, and Japan. This course introduces students to the raw ingredients of things in motion, poised interactively in time and space, as material worlds collide. Wood, bamboo, bronze, clay, earthenware, ink, spices, textiles and tea - students will navigate sites of encounter at the Herbert F. Johnson Museum from pre modern to the present.#
&ARTH 3550 | Modern and Contemporary Latin American Art&
#This course concerns a selection of influential artistic movements in Latin American from the early twentieth century to the present. Attention is given to issues such as the effects of colonialism and imperialism on Latin America's visual arts, the creation of national art, the relation of Latin American art and artists to cultural centers in Europe, The United States and other regions of the globe, the interaction of high art and popular culture, and the role of gender and race in various aspects of artistic practice. Students will also become acquainted with Latin American and Latinx artists working with new technologies.#
&ARTH 3600 | Contemporary Art: 1960-Present&
#This course discusses new art practices since the 1960s. Although numerous artistic experiments took place during the first half of the twentieth century, it was with the declining importance of modernist painting and sculpture by the late 1950s that newer modes of artistic practice became established. The course will explore the rise of Fluxus, Minimalism, Conceptualism, Land Art, Video and Performance, Postmodernism, and Postcolonialism. These practices are situated in relation to intellectual and social movements since the 1960s, including counterculture, feminism, race, ecology, institutional critique, and globalization. This course focuses primarily on Western European and North American art, but also incorporates selected global developments.#
&ARTH 3755 | Humanities Scholars Research Methods&
#This course explores the practice, theory, and methodology of humanities research, critical analysis, and communication through writing and oral presentation. We will study the work and impact of humanists (scholars of literature, history, theory, art, visual studies, film, anthropology, gender and sexuality studies), who pose big questions about the human condition. By reading and analyzing their scholarship—critiquing them and engaging their ideas—we will craft our own methods and voices. Students will refine their research methods (library research, note taking, organizing material, bibliographies, citation methods, proposals, outlines, etc.) and design their own independent research project.#
&ARTH 3803 | Urban Interfaces: Art, Architecture, and Urbanism in China at the turn of the 21st Century&
#How does art, architecture, and urban space interface with one another and what is the role of art in public space and public life? This course considers these questions within the context of China's unprecedented urban transformation at the turn of the 21st century, paying attention to the ways in which art and architecture are at once resistant to and at the same time entangled with capitalist and governmental forces. From Beijing's Tiananmen Square to Guangzhou's skyscraper construction sites; from virtual cities to New York City—a center of the Chinese diaspora—we will look transregionally at how different types of urban spaces prompted new aesthetic forms and how such creative acts contributed, in turn, to the transformation of these very spaces.#
&ARTH 4155 | Topics in Latin American Art&
#Topic: Latin American Moderinsims and Technology. The involvement of Latin American artists with modern media technologies dates at least to the late nineteenth century and has especially flourished in the last three decades. The canonical histories and criticism of Latin American art for the most part depict a history of artistic production in which technology plays a minor or invisible role. This construction of history reinforces the assumption that experimentation, innovation, and theorization in technological art are exclusive provinces of the developed world. As the history of art expands to include diverse areas of media arts and visual culture, the recognition of Latin American artists' involvement with technology is not only overdue but also essential to the development of more diverse and rigorous understandings of both modernity and modernism.#
&ARTH 4354 | Byzantine Archaeology&
#A seminar on the archaeology of the Byzantine Empire, from the late Roman through to the early modern periods. Topics to be covered include: long-term changes in settlement patterns and urban development; the material traces of state and monastic control over productive landscapes; the idea of the border and the nature of its defense; and the fraught relationship between "Byzantine" and "classical" archaeologies.#
&ARTH 4520 | Reading Race Early Modern Art&
#This seminar explores the ways in which artists and craftspeople created representations of non-Europeans that shaped, negotiated, and challenged pluralistic biological and symbolic conceptions of race between 1450 and 1700. Against the backdrop of increasing global contact, European colonial enterprises, and the explosion of the Atlantic slave trade, this seminar will critically explore constructions of Blackness, whiteness, and racialized "otherness" and will consider the roles played by art and material culture in practices of race-making. Thinking materially, students will assess the impact of different artistic media on understandings of racialized difference. Considering race at its intersections with gender, class, religion, science, and disability, this seminar will analyze how artworks reveal and obscure the real, complex experiences of non-Europeans in Europe.#
&ARTH 4540 | Film History for Art Historians&
#This seminar will offer a survey of film theory and history tailored for art historians, especially but not exclusively for modernists.  The influence of cinema on twentieth-century aesthetics cannot be overstated, yet art historians routinely work without enough knowledge about the history of cinema or the grammar and rhetoric of its techniques.  The history of montage, continuity editing, cinematography, and narrative form will be covered as we encounter major works from world cinema in dialogue with significant movements in modern art.  German Expressionism, Surrealism, Italian Neorealism, Documentary Film, Film Noir, Hollywood Auteurism, East Asian Auteurism, and Bollywood Cinema will be among the major movements covered, as will the late entry into the fine art world of moving image media.#
&ARTH 4556 | Decolonial Poetics and Aesthetics: Arts of Resistance in the Americas&
#Exploring a genealogy of Latinx, Afro-Latinx, Black, Indigenous, and Chicana/o/x theorizations of modernity and identity, the course asks, what is the decolonial? Is it a space between the colonial and post-colonial? Is it a creative process, an intellectual theorization, or a historical period? Is it a performance, intervention, or embodied experience? Tracing a historical trajectory of the decolonial in poetry, performance, installation, and visual art, the course examines decolonial modes of making and being from the sixteenth to the twenty first century.#
&ARTH 4625 | Liquidities: Seascapes in Art and as History&
#This seminar explores readings in the "blue humanities" as they relate to art history, with a particular focus on the genre of the seascape as a means of framing human-oceanic, interspecies, and cross-cultural encounters. After establishing a theoretical basis in oceanic thought, we will explore the methodological potential such watery thinking offers for an art history attuned to cross currents, fluid interactions, and unsettled narratives. Though anchored in the Western perspective of the "seascape," course readings will also be attentive to the long history of fluid models of identity and objecthood in diverse Indigenous cultures, and to the limitations inherent in the terrestrial bias of much Western scholarship.#
&ARTH 4822 | Objects, Rituals, and Tea&
#Tea is a ubiquitous commodity across time and cultures. The craze for tea has become a global phenomenon. The goal of this course is not only to elucidate the exchanges and transmissions that gave rise to the phenomenon, but also to unpack the definition of tea culture through the exploration of objects and rituals. How are tea objects related to rituals, etiquette, and movement? What do tea objects reveal about craftsmen/craftswomen and collectors? How are the objects related to religious, political, social, and economic environments of their times? Lastly, what is the importance of tea culture in shaping national and cultural identity in modern East Asia?#
&ARTH 4844 | The Rise of Contemporary Chinese Art: Narratives in the Making of New Art&
#An explosive period of artistic experimentation occurred in China following the end of the Cultural Revolution (1966-1976). The new artistic practices that were developed from the late 1970s onwards—from painting to sculpture, installation, performance, video—quickly came to be known as "contemporary Chinese art." This course charts its development with a historiographic attention to the ways in which it has been narrativized by domestic and international critics, curators, and art historians. Analyzing artworks, exhibitions, and translated texts, we will explore major trends and discursive issues to reflect on how we tell the story of this art in its domestic and global contexts.#
&ARTH 4855 | Threads of Consequence: Textiles in South and Southeast Asia&
#This seminar explores how patterned cloths serve as a symbolic medium, functioning on multiple levels of understanding and communication. As spun, dyed, and woven threads of consequence, textiles can be seen to enter into all phases of social, economic, political, religious, and performance processes, often assuming unusual properties and attributes. As bearers of talismanic messages, signifiers of rank, and as the recipients of influences from maritime trade and touristic demand, textiles are read between the folds of complex exchange mechanisms in South and Southeast Asia.#
&ARTH 4992 | Independent Study&
#Individual investigation and discussion of special topics not covered in the regular course offerings, by arrangement with a member of the department.#
&ARTH 4999 | Honors Work II&
#The student under faculty direction prepares a senior thesis.#
&ARTH 5992 | Supervised Reading&
#Individual investigation and discussion of special topics not covered in the regular course offerings, by arrangement with a member of the department.#
&ARTH 5994 | Supervised Study&
#Individual investigation and discussion of special topics not covered in the regular course offerings, by arrangement with a member of the department.#
&ARTH 6155 | Topics in Latin American Art&
#Topic: Latin American Modernisms and Technology. The involvement of Latin American artists with modern media technologies dates at least to the late nineteenth century and has especially flourished in the last three decades. The canonical histories and criticism of Latin American art for the most part depict a history of artistic production in which technology plays a minor or invisible role. This construction of history reinforces the assumption that experimentation, innovation, and theorization in technological art are exclusive provinces of the developed world. As the history of art expands to include diverse areas of media arts and visual culture, the recognition of Latin American artists' involvement with technology is not only overdue but also essential to the development of more diverse and rigorous understandings of both modernity and modernism.#
&ARTH 6310 | Methods in Medieval&
#Topic: Writing Through the Forest in Search of Trees. Hello, Humanities Student! Are you a plotter or a pantser? Not sure? Come and join us to find out, and to gain valuable insight into what kind of a writer you are, and how to manage that writer most effectively and productively. This theme-centered methods seminar, through a communal focus on trees, woods, glens, and copses in the pre-modern world, will hone in on the most indispensable tool in the humanist's belt: writing. From the generation of ideas, to their organization into an outline (or a blueprint, or whatever euphemism we, as a group or as individuals, decide to apply to the initial, tangled pile of yarn) to the first draft. Followed by frank and constructive criticism of the initial draft as a group and in pairs, and then on to the part that all students—really, all humanists…okay, all writers—find to be the greatest struggle: "Your paper has some good ideas, but it really needs a rewrite." Now what do you do? As we write, and rewrite, we will also read widely. In addition to primary sources, scholarly articles and essays, we will include criticism, personal essay, theory, excerpts from fiction, and more, in an effort to open students' writing up to a myriad of possibilities for persuasive and compelling written communication.#
&ARTH 6354 | Byzantine Archaeology&
#A seminar on the archaeology of the Byzantine Empire, from the late Roman through to the early modern periods. Topics to be covered include: long-term changes in settlement patterns and urban development; the material traces of state and monastic control over productive landscapes; the idea of the border and the nature of its defense; and the fraught relationship between "Byzantine" and "classical" archaeologies.#
&ARTH 6520 | Reading Race Early Modern Art&
#This seminar explores the ways in which artists and craftspeople created representations of non-Europeans that shaped, negotiated, and challenged pluralistic biological and symbolic conceptions of race between 1450 and 1700. Against the backdrop of increasing global contact, European colonial enterprises, and the explosion of the Atlantic slave trade, this seminar will critically explore constructions of Blackness, whiteness, and racialized "otherness" and will consider the roles played by art and material culture in practices of race-making. Thinking materially, students will assess the impact of different artistic media on understandings of racialized difference. Considering race at its intersections with gender, class, religion, science, and disability, this seminar will analyze how artworks reveal and obscure the real, complex experiences of non-Europeans in Europe.#
&ARTH 6540 | Film History for Art Historians&
#This seminar will offer a survey of film theory and history tailored for art historians, especially but not exclusively for modernists.  The influence of cinema on twentieth-century aesthetics cannot be overstated, yet art historians routinely work without enough knowledge about the history of cinema or the grammar and rhetoric of its techniques.  The history of montage, continuity editing, cinematography, and narrative form will be covered as we encounter major works from world cinema in dialogue with significant movements in modern art.  German Expressionism, Surrealism, Italian Neorealism, Documentary Film, Film Noir, Hollywood Auteurism, East Asian Auteurism, and Bollywood Cinema will be among the major movements covered, as will the late entry into the fine art world of moving image media.#
&ARTH 6550 | Modern and Contemporary Latin American Art&
#This course concerns a selection of influential artistic movements in Latin American from the early twentieth century to the present. Attention is given to issues such as the effects of colonialism and imperialism on Latin America's visual arts, the creation of national art, the relation of Latin American art and artists to cultural centers in Europe, The United States and other regions of the globe, the interaction of high art and popular culture, and the role of gender and race in various aspects of artistic practice. Students will also become acquainted with Latin American and Latinx artists working with new technologies.#
&ARTH 6556 | Decolonial Poetics and Aesthetics: Arts of Resistance in the Americas&
#Exploring a genealogy of Latinx, Afro-Latinx, Black, Indigenous, and Chicana/o/x theorizations of modernity and identity, the course asks, what is the decolonial? Is it a space between the colonial and post-colonial? Is it a creative process, an intellectual theorization, or a historical period? Is it a performance, intervention, or embodied experience? Tracing a historical trajectory of the decolonial in poetry, performance, installation, and visual art, the course examines decolonial modes of making and being from the sixteenth to the twenty first century.#
&ARTH 6622 | Liquidities: Seascapes in Art and as History&
#This seminar explores readings in the "blue humanities" as they relate to art history, with a particular focus on the genre of the seascape as a means of framing human-oceanic, interspecies, and cross-cultural encounters. After establishing a theoretical basis in oceanic thought, we will explore the methodological potential such watery thinking offers for an art history attuned to cross currents, fluid interactions, and unsettled narratives. Though anchored in the Western perspective of the "seascape," course readings will also be attentive to the long history of fluid models of identity and objecthood in diverse Indigenous cultures, and to the limitations inherent in the terrestrial bias of much Western scholarship.#
&ARTH 6803 | Urban Interfaces: Art, Architecture, and Urbanism in China at the turn of the 21st Century&
#How does art, architecture, and urban space interface with one another and what is the role of art in public space and public life? This course considers these questions within the context of China's unprecedented urban transformation at the turn of the 21st century, paying attention to the ways in which art and architecture are at once resistant to and at the same time entangled with capitalist and governmental forces. From Beijing's Tiananmen Square to Guangzhou's skyscraper construction sites; from virtual cities to New York City—a center of the Chinese diaspora—we will look transregionally at how different types of urban spaces prompted new aesthetic forms and how such creative acts contributed, in turn, to the transformation of these very spaces.#
&ARTH 6822 | Objects, Rituals, and Tea&
#Tea is a ubiquitous commodity across time and cultures. The craze for tea has become a global phenomenon. The goal of this course is not only to elucidate the exchanges and transmissions that gave rise to the phenomenon, but also to unpack the definition of tea culture through the exploration of objects and rituals. How are tea objects related to rituals, etiquette, and movement? What do tea objects reveal about craftsmen/craftswomen and collectors? How are the objects related to religious, political, social, and economic environments of their times? Lastly, what is the importance of tea culture in shaping national and cultural identity in modern East Asia?#
&ARTH 6844 | The Rise of Contemporary Chinese Art: Narratives in the Making of New Art&
#An explosive period of artistic experimentation occurred in China following the end of the Cultural Revolution (1966-1976). The new artistic practices that were developed from the late 1970s onwards—from painting to sculpture, installation, performance, video—quickly came to be known as "contemporary Chinese art." This course charts its development with a historiographic attention to the ways in which it has been narrativized by domestic and international critics, curators, and art historians. Analyzing artworks, exhibitions, and translated texts, we will explore major trends and discursive issues to reflect on how we tell the story of this art in its domestic and global contexts.#
&ARTH 6855 | Threads of Consequence: Textiles in South and Southeast Asia&
#This seminar explores how patterned cloths serve as a symbolic medium, functioning on multiple levels of understanding and communication. As spun, dyed, and woven threads of consequence, textiles can be seen to enter into all phases of social, economic, political, religious, and performance processes, often assuming unusual properties and attributes. As bearers of talismanic messages, signifiers of rank, and as the recipients of influences from maritime trade and touristic demand, textiles are read between the folds of complex exchange mechanisms in South and Southeast Asia.#


$AS | Arts & Sciences$
&AS 3112 | Milstein Independent Study&
#Independent study course for Milstein Program students.#
&AS 3113 | Milstein Studio&
#MStudio brings world-class speakers, faculty innovators, leading industry voices, and extraordinary Cornell alums to campus for public talks and conversations on tech and humanities as well as special immersive skills-based "short courses".#
&AS 3200 | Milstein Junior Project&
#Milstein Scholars undertake a year-long, independent study to deepen their understanding of the issues, topics, and technologies that interest them. What form these projects take -- research essay, video art, app development, etc. -- is up to the Scholar and their collaborators. Working with a faculty mentor in the field, juniors define and scope their projects in the fall and execute in the spring semester. This course culminates with the Milstein Expo in May.#


$ASIAN | Asian Studies$
&ASIAN 1109 | FWS: Connected Cities in Asia, 16th-18th Centuries&
#What can a tour of Asian cities teach us about early modern globalization? We will learn the fundamentals of good writing by learning about the key port cities of the Indo-Pacific in the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries. Our exploration will trace the bustling activities, scandals, and diplomatic endeavors in cities such as Nagasaki, Macau, Manila, Batavia, Acapulco, and beyond. We will write about the people and peoples "in motion" who encountered one another in these contact zones, including multi-ethnic pirates; Asian merchants in the Americas; samurai in Southeast Asia; and exiled Japanese Christians. By the end of the course, you will have deepened your understanding of the course material and the writing process through weekly "Quite Writes" and five formal essays.#
&ASIAN 1111 | FWS: Literature, Culture, Religion&
#This First-Year Writing Seminar is about Asian Literature, Religion, and Culture and provides the opportunity to write extensively about these issues.  Topics vary by section and instructor.#
&ASIAN 2218 | Introduction to Korea&
#This course provides an introduction to Korean culture and history from early times to the present. We will examine major historical time periods and cultural forms of the Korean peninsula, with a focus on the Chosŏn dynasty (1392-1910) and the twentieth century. The course is designed to give students an overview of the transformations of Korean civilization in the context of the East Asian cultural sphere and globalization. We will engage with a wide range of texts and media across time periods, including films, primary historical sources in translation, literature, and music videos. Key themes and topics of the course include the formation of South and North Korea's identities, the rise of Neo-Confucianism, Japanese colonization and (post) colonialism, the construction and performance of gender, the Korean War and postwar reconstruction, environmental degradation, and developments in popular culture.#
&ASIAN 2222 | From Samurai to Superpower: Japan in World History II&
#In 1868, samurai revolutionaries and their allies seized the reins of power and established a new capital they called Tokyo. Against all odds, this fragile regime survived and made Tokyo a center of power that would transform both Japan and the world. This survey of Japanese history explores the rise and fall of Japan as a modern imperial power; its foreign relations; its economic and scientific development from "feudalism" to futuristic technologies; and Japan's many modern revolutions, from the rule of the samurai to Westernization and democracy, from democratic collapse to fascism and World War II, and from Japan's postwar rebirth to the present. We will examine not only big events but also everyday life, including gender and sexuality, family and schools, and art and popular culture.#
&ASIAN 2232 | Introduction to China: Getting Rich in Modern China&
#People outside China often talk about "China's rise," the changes in world economics and politics that come from the increase of the economic power of the People's Republic. From a domestic perspective, though, China's rise represents a promise to regular people that they will lead richer lives, both literally and figuratively. This course will examine the nature and history of that promise as it is experienced through literature, film, and other cultural texts. Why and how do PRC citizens want to get rich, and what happens when they don't? How does economic class shape identity in contemporary China? Can parts of the population be happy outside of the pursuit of material wealth?#
&ASIAN 2248 | Buddhists in Indian Ocean World: Past & Present&
#For millennia, Buddhist monks, merchants, pilgrims, diplomats, and adventurers have moved around the Indian Ocean arena circulating Buddhist teachings and powerful objects. In doing so they helped create Buddhist communities in the places we now refer to as southern China, India, Sri Lanka, and Southeast Asia. The course explores these circulatory histories by focusing on case studies in each of four historical periods: premodern (esp. early second millennium A.D.); the era of 19th-century colonial projects; mid-20th-century nation-state formation in South and Southeast Asia; and contemporary (early 21st century) times. Drawing together materials from Indian Ocean studies, Buddhist studies, and critical studies of colonialism, modernity, and nation-state formation, this course attends to the ways in which changing trans-regional conditions shape local Buddhisms, how Buddhist collectives around the Indian Ocean arena shape one another, and how trade, religion, and politics interact.#
&ASIAN 2250 | Introduction to Asian Religions&
#This course will explore religious traditions in South Asia (Pakistan, India, and Sri Lanka) and East Asia (China, Japan, and Korea) including Hinduism, Buddhism (South Asian and East Asian), Sikhism, Confucianism, Daoism, and Shintō. We will also encounter a wide range of religious expressions, including myth, ritual, pilgrimage, mysticism, meditation, and other spiritual technologies.#
&ASIAN 2254 | South Asian Religions in Practice: The Healing Traditions&
#This course offers an anthropological approach to the study of religious traditions and practices in South Asia: India, Pakistan, Sri Lanka, and Nepal. The course begins with a short survey of the major religious traditions of South Asia: Hinduism, Buddhism, Jainism, Sikhism, and Islam. We look to the development of these traditions through historical and cultural perspectives. The course then turns to the modern period, considering the impact of colonialism, nationalism, and globalization upon religious ideologies and practices. The primary focus of the course will be the ethnographic study of contemporary religious practices in the region. We examine phenomena such as ritual, pilgrimage, possession, devotionalism, monasticism, asceticism, and revivalism through a series of ethnographic case studies. In so doing, we also seek to understand the impact of politics, modernity, diasporic movement, social inequality, changing gender roles, and mass mediation upon these traditions and practices.#
&ASIAN 2258 | The Occupation of Japan&
#In August 1945, Japan was a devastated country; its cities burned, its people starving, its military and government in surrender. World War II was over. The occupation had begun. What sort of society emerged from the cooperation and conflict between occupiers and occupied? Students will examine sources ranging from declassified government documents to excerpts from diaries and bawdy fiction, alongside major scholarly studies, to find out. The first half of the course focuses on key issues in Japanese history, like the fate of the emperor, constitutional revision, and the emancipation of women. The second half zooms out for a wider perspective, for the occupation of Japan was never merely a local event. It was the collapse of Japanese empire and the rise of American empire in Asia. It was decolonization in Korea and the start of the Cold War. Students will further investigate these links in final individual research projects.#
&ASIAN 2260 | Japanese Pop Culture&
#Japanese pop culture—anime, manga, video games, music and more—has been a major phenomenon with massive worldwide popularity for the last three decades. In this course, we will explore a wide range of Japanese pop cultural forms, exploring the interactions between different media, Japanese pop culture as global pop culture, and a variety of modes of analyzing visual and audio materials. We will also see how pop cultural works themselves, in their content and form, engage with questions of gender, technology, fandom, nation, and the environment. No prior knowledge of Japanese language, culture, or history required. All readings and screenings will be available in English or with English subtitles.#
&ASIAN 2272 | Food and Asia&
#Can we identify a distinctive Asian food and food culture? Challenging attempts to define heterogenous gastronomic practices as authentic reflections of a static Asian identity, this course discusses how food, diet, and cuisine have been integral to shaping boundaries of culture, identity, and nation across geographical and temporal divisions in Asia. We will examine how people use daily and visceral food experiences to imagine themselves as members of a given community, be it a nation, ethnicity, class, gender, or religion, while also examining how food practices constantly challenge that fixation and redraw these categories. Through examining a wide range of materials in diverse disciplines, ranging from reading historical and anthropological studies to watching "food porn" and TV cooking shows, we will discuss topics related to cookery and the media, colonialism and culinary modernity, food production and consumption, gender and cooking, food and (trans)nationalism, diaspora and globalization of food as well as eating and inequality.#
&ASIAN 2285 | Introduction to Asian Art: Material Worlds&
#Trade in and to Asia proved to be a key force in creating our modern "globalized" world. The Indian Ocean and the China Seas converged on Southeast Asia, where a cosmopolitan array of ships from every shore plied their trade, set sail, and returned with the monsoon winds. People, goods, and ideas also traveled on camelback across the undulating contours of the Gobi Desert, connecting India, the Near East and Central Asia with China, Korea, and Japan. This course introduces students to the raw ingredients of things in motion, poised interactively in time and space, as material worlds collide. Wood, bamboo, bronze, clay, earthenware, ink, spices, textiles and tea - students will navigate sites of encounter at the Herbert F. Johnson Museum from pre modern to the present.#
&ASIAN 2294 | Of Saints, Poets, and Revolutionaries: Medieval and Modern Iran and Central Asia&
#From the poet-kings of medieval Persia to the trading networks of the famed "Silk Road" to the wandering mystics of Herat to the constitutional revolution of Iran to the colonial and post-colonial occupations of contemporary Afghanistan, this course offers a broad cultural and political history of Iranian and Turkic Central Asia.  In addition, we will explore the highly complex intellectual, artistic, and architectural trends and "cross-cultural" exchanges that formed the backbone of many disparate Iranian-Turkic cultures.#
&ASIAN 2295 | Orientalism and East Asia&
#This course explores the evolution of Orientalism, focusing on how East Asia has been perceived in the West and in East Asia. By analyzing a range of cultural and literary works spanning the genres of travelogue, poetry, fiction, film, opera, photograph, painting, illustration, etc., the course critically examines the Orientalist dichotomy between the West and the non-West and analyzes the internalization of Orientalism in East Asia in constructing the marginalized other. In addition, through a combination of reading, writing, and in-class discussion, the course investigates the historical conditions surrounding the production and dissemination of Orientalist representations of East Asia and their relevance in the contemporary world.#
&ASIAN 2740 | Imperial China&
#This course explores the history of imperial China between the 3rd century b.c.e. and the 16th century c.e. with a focus on the following questions: How did imperial Chinese states go about politically unifying diverse peoples over vast spaces? How did imperial Chinese approaches to governance and to relations with the outer world compare with strategies employed by other historical empires? How did those approaches change over time? How did major socio-cultural formations — including literary canons; religious and familial lineages; marketing networks; and popular book and theatrical cultures — grow and take root, and what were the broader ramifications of those developments? How did such basic configurations of human difference as Chinese (civilized)-barbarian identity, high-low status, and male-female gender operate and change over time?#
&ASIAN 2930 | A Global History of Love&
#By posing seemingly simple questions such as what is love and who has the right to love, this introductory-level lecture course surveys how love has been experienced and expressed from the pre-modern period to the present. Through case studies of familial and conjugal love in Africa, Asia, the US, Europe, and South and Latin America, the course will examine the debates about and enactment's of what constitutes the appropriate way to show love and affection in different cultures and historical contexts. Among the themes we will explore are questions of sexuality, marriage, kinship, and gender rights. A final unit will examine these themes through modern technologies such as the Internet, scientific advances in medicine, and a growing awareness that who and how we love is anything but simple or universal.#
&ASIAN 3021 | History of Korea-China Relations&
#This course examines the long, complicated history of Korea's relationship with China, focusing on the period from the fourteenth century to the present. Rather than having a nation-bound interpretation of history, the course explores how Korea's national identity–from the Chosŏn dynasty, through the colonial period, to the contemporary era of the two Koreas–has been shaped and negotiated in close relation to its interactions with China. By addressing various issues in Korean history that reflect Korea's strong ties and conflicts with China, the course not only offers a comprehensive understanding of Korean history from a broader comparative perspective but also contributes to the transnational history of East Asia.#
&ASIAN 3022 | Japan and the Age of Discovery&
#In 1610, Nahua chronicler Chimalpahin wrote that a group of Japanese merchants had made landfall in Mexico, bringing with them writing desks, folding screens, porcelain, and silk. During this period, Japanese warlords, merchants, and converts began to engage in overseas exploration, journeying from Acapulco to Rome and traversing the Pacific and Atlantic Oceans. At the same time, these actors engaged in colonial expansion, invading Korea, settling in parts of Southeast Asia, colonizing the island of Ezo (Hokkaidō), and dominating the Ryukyuan islands (Okinawa). We will disentangle the complex and obscured role of the Japanese archipelago in early modern globalization through decolonial and archipelagic thinking. In each session, we will apply the readings to a primary source, such as an edict, a world-map folding screen, a set of playing cards, or an anti-Christian tale, that will serve as a focal point for the respective theme of the session. By grounding our interpretations in a diverse array of primary sources, you will develop an interdisciplinary skillset in visual, literary, and historical evidence and gain robust knowledge of transoceanic exchange. You will also contribute to a digital humanities project that will create a visual database of motifs found on Japanese folding screens depicting the arrival of the Portuguese.#
&ASIAN 3341 | Mahayana Buddhism&
#This course will explore the origins and early developments of a movement in Indian Buddhism known as the Great Vehicle. We will intensively examine a small slice of this movement's voluminous literature so as to better understand its call for a new spiritual orientation within Buddhism. Topics of discussion will include the career of the bodhisattva, the lay/monk distinction, attitudes of Mahayanists toward women and other Buddhists, and the development of Buddhist utopias and transcendent buddhas.#
&ASIAN 3366 | Poetry of Classical India&
#The course will survey in translation a selection of major works of poetry, drama, and aesthetic theory and criticism from the Sanskrit literary tradition of ancient India. Beginning with selections from the Sanskrit epic Ramayana, traditionally regarded as the "first poem" in the Indian tradition, we will turn tosurvey prominent examples from the ongoing tradition of epic poetry, the rise of romantic and heroic drama through the works of the fifth century Gupta poet Kalidasa and his successors, and the extensive corpus of Sanskrit and Prakrit lyric poetry from the 2nd to the 12th century AD.#
&ASIAN 3375 | Humanities Scholars Research Methods&
#This course explores the practice, theory, and methodology of humanities research, critical analysis, and communication through writing and oral presentation. We will study the work and impact of humanists (scholars of literature, history, theory, art, visual studies, film, anthropology, gender and sexuality studies), who pose big questions about the human condition. By reading and analyzing their scholarship—critiquing them and engaging their ideas—we will craft our own methods and voices. Students will refine their research methods (library research, note taking, organizing material, bibliographies, citation methods, proposals, outlines, etc.) and design their own independent research project.#
&ASIAN 3395 | What is China?&
#China is often thought of as being isolated from the outside world. It is imagined as existing in historic seclusion, and, following the establishment of the People's Republic, as pursuing a path of autarky. Such separation has then only been somewhat modified by the set of economic reforms that Deng Xiaoping first instituted in the late 1970s. In this lecture we will seek to turn such conventional wisdom on its head through examining "what China is" via a consideration of transnational currents within the country's development. However, the course's primary focus will not be upon the past, but rather the present and attempting to determine just where the point of intersection between China and the rest of the world is. Coming to terms with such an issue will provide those who enroll in the class with a deeper, more nuanced, understanding of China's rise and this trend's implications for the rest of the world. We will accomplish this task through a combination of surveying the existing literature on China and transnational politics, and considering new theoretical perspectives on both.#
&ASIAN 3396 | Transnational Local: Southeast Asian History from the Eighteenth Century&
#Surveys the modern history of Southeast Asia with special attention to colonialism, the Chinese diaspora, and socio-cultural institutions.  Considers global transformations that brought "the West" into people's lives in Southeast Asia.  Focuses on the development of the modern nation-state, but also questions the narrative by incorporating groups that are typically excluded.  Assigns primary texts in translation.#
&ASIAN 4020 | Buddhist Moderns: Visions of Human Flourishing&
#Do modern times (which are experienced and conceptualized in varied ways) pose distinctive problems and opportunities for Buddhists? How are Buddhist teachings drawn into forms of social and political critique, activist and advocacy projects, and theorizing about human communities and social processes? In the 20th and 21st centuries, how do Buddhist teachings and practices inform practical and conceptual approaches to human flourishing? Drawing on thinkers from several parts of Asia and the Americas, this seminar highlights how persons work creatively with Buddhist teachings. We shall explore how Buddhist teachings are interpreted to address painful circumstances, as well as how such hermeneutics may offer new (and sometimes liberatory) ways of seeing selves, others, and communities.  Writers and artists considered in this seminar interpret Buddhist teachings and practices in relation to capitalism, race, gender, sexuality, environmental ethics, and nationalism.#
&ASIAN 4401 | Asian Studies Honors Course&
#Supervised reading and research on the problem selected for honors work.#
&ASIAN 4402 | Asian Studies Honors: Senior Essay&
#The student, under faculty direction, prepares an honors essay.#
&ASIAN 4404 | Supervised Reading&
#Intensive reading under the direction of a member of the staff.#
&ASIAN 4413 | Religion and Politics in Southeast Asia&
#This course explores how religious beliefs and practices in Southeast Asia have been transformed by the combined forces of colonialism, nationalism, and globalization. By examining both diversity and resurgence in one of the world's most rapidly modernizing regions, we aim to understand the common economic, social, and political conditions that are contributing to the popularity of contemporary religious movements. At the same time, we also consider the unique ideological, theological, and cultural understandings behind different religions and movements. Through this process we also rethink conceptions of modernity.#
&ASIAN 4414 | Topics in South Asian Culture and Literature&
#Topics will address South Asian culture and literature and change in relation to curricular needs within the Department of Asian Studies.#
&ASIAN 4424 | Objects, Rituals, and Tea&
#Tea is a ubiquitous commodity across time and cultures. The craze for tea has become a global phenomenon. The goal of this course is not only to elucidate the exchanges and transmissions that gave rise to the phenomenon, but also to unpack the definition of tea culture through the exploration of objects and rituals. How are tea objects related to rituals, etiquette, and movement? What do tea objects reveal about craftsmen/craftswomen and collectors? How are the objects related to religious, political, social, and economic environments of their times? Lastly, what is the importance of tea culture in shaping national and cultural identity in modern East Asia?#
&ASIAN 4426 | Narrating Choson Korea: History and Memory&
#This course will explore the culture and society of Choson Korea (1392—1897) through a variety of historical, literary, and visual representations. Following the major political, social, and cultural transformations that shaped Choson Korea, such as Confucianism and the introduction of the patriarchy; changes to relationships among family, class, and gender; the Hideyoshi invasion and the collapse of the Ming dynasty; and the flourishing of commerce and foreign trade, we will examine a variety of discursive practices for constructing individual and collective identities and analyze how these identities changed over time in relation to shifting historical conditions in Choson Korea.#
&ASIAN 4435 | Making Sense of China: The Capstone Seminar&
#This course serves as a survey of major issues within Chinese politics and foreign policy and constitutes the capstone seminar for CAPS students. It is intended to give students an opportunity to explore aspects related to Chinese politics, economics, and society that they may have touched upon in other China-focused courses at Cornell, but have not been able to examine as fully, and with the degree of care, that they would like. In this regard, the substance of the course will be developed through an iterative process between the instructor and the seminar participants. We will spend the first part of the course doing a series of recent influential readings on contemporary China and developing initial research projects. The second half of the class will be organized around student led presentations of research projects (accompanied by relevant academic, media, and policy readings).#
&ASIAN 4461 | China's Early Modern&
#Theories of modernization have inspired, informed, and plagued histories of middle and late imperial China. For the Song-Qing eras (roughly 10th-19th centuries), comparative studies have variously found and sought to explain modernization emerging earlier than in Europe, an absence of modernization, or alternative paths of modernization.  Regional models have argued for pan-East Asian systems and patterns of modernization. Global models have argued that China had a vital role in European development as a provenance of modernizing institutions and ideas, as a source of exploited resources, or otherwise as an integral part of global systems. In this course we explore these historiographical debates and develop critical perspectives, including approaches to escaping Eurocentric and teleological frameworks.#
&ASIAN 4477 | Ecocriticism, Indigeneity, and East Asia in Global Context&
#This interdisciplinary seminar examines the relationship between literature and the environment in an East Asian and global context. We will explore key questions and approaches in the fields of ecocriticism and the environmental humanities as they relate to ecological change in Korea, China, and Japan. How does literature make environmental crises, their effects on sentient beings, and the earth itself more visible? In what ways does storytelling give voice to changing relationships between humans and the more-than-human world? The seminar will engage the significant conceptual contributions Indigenous thinkers from Asia and the Americas have contributed to ecocriticism as we examine how poets, novelists, filmmakers, artists, nonfiction writers, and critics have responded creatively to environmental change.#
&ASIAN 4487 | Threads of Consequence: Textiles in South and Southeast Asia&
#This seminar explores how patterned cloths serve as a symbolic medium, functioning on multiple levels of understanding and communication. As spun, dyed, and woven threads of consequence, textiles can be seen to enter into all phases of social, economic, political, religious, and performance processes, often assuming unusual properties and attributes. As bearers of talismanic messages, signifiers of rank, and as the recipients of influences from maritime trade and touristic demand, textiles are read between the folds of complex exchange mechanisms in South and Southeast Asia.#
&ASIAN 4669 | Mapping the Black Pacific(s): Afro-Asian Encounters&
#This seminar investigates the emergent concept of the Black Pacific, an area that scholars across multiple disciplines in recent years have begun to shed new light on. This course is designed to encourage an exploration of various methods including autobiography, video, film and others. This seminar seeks to examine the histories of African descendants to Asia via the Pacific rim and consider the ways in the varying concepts of Blackness itself may look different if we center our gaze on the trans-Pacific world. The term "Mapping" in the course title is in response to the often-overlooked encounters between peoples of African and Asian descent and the presence of African descendants in this region.#
&ASIAN 4703 | The Glitch: Errors, Disability, and the Edges of Digital Media&
#A "glitch" is when something goes "wrong" in digital media—sometimes, however, it is precisely when something "fails" that can tell us about the structures and forces that underlie that media. In this course we'll be exploring a wide variety of examples of how media creators, artists, hackers, game developers, Deaf and disability activists, and other marginalized groups from across the world (with a particular focus on Japan) have used "glitches" to tell us something new about the digital, looking at works ranging from electronic literature to online horror stories to experimental video games and installation art.#
&ASIAN 5505 | Methodology of Asian Language Learning and Teaching&
#This course presents theories of language teaching and learning, and shows how they apply to Asian language course structure, classroom instruction, and assessment techniques.  Students will observe classes taught by experienced teachers, discuss language learning theory and practice, and design and implement their own class activities.#
&ASIAN 6020 | Buddhist Moderns: Visions of Human Flourishing&
#Do modern times (which are experienced and conceptualized in varied ways) pose distinctive problems and opportunities for Buddhists? How are Buddhist teachings drawn into forms of social and political critique, activist and advocacy projects, and theorizing about human communities and social processes? In the 20th and 21st centuries, how do Buddhist teachings and practices inform practical and conceptual approaches to human flourishing? Drawing on thinkers from several parts of Asia and the Americas, this seminar highlights how persons work creatively with Buddhist teachings. We shall explore how Buddhist teachings are interpreted to address painful circumstances, as well as how such hermeneutics may offer new (and sometimes liberatory) ways of seeing selves, others, and communities.  Writers and artists considered in this seminar interpret Buddhist teachings and practices in relation to capitalism, race, gender, sexuality, environmental ethics, and nationalism.#
&ASIAN 6022 | Japan and the Age of Discovery&
#In 1610, Nahua chronicler Chimalpahin wrote that a group of Japanese merchants had made landfall in Mexico, bringing with them writing desks, folding screens, porcelain, and silk. During this period, Japanese warlords, merchants, and converts began to engage in overseas exploration, journeying from Acapulco to Rome and traversing the Pacific and Atlantic Oceans. At the same time, these actors engaged in colonial expansion, invading Korea, settling in parts of Southeast Asia, colonizing the island of Ezo (Hokkaidō), and dominating the Ryukyuan islands (Okinawa). We will disentangle the complex and obscured role of the Japanese archipelago in early modern globalization through decolonial and archipelagic thinking. In each session, we will apply the readings to a primary source, such as an edict, a world-map folding screen, a set of playing cards, or an anti-Christian tale, that will serve as a focal point for the respective theme of the session. By grounding our interpretations in a diverse array of primary sources, you will develop an interdisciplinary skillset in visual, literary, and historical evidence and gain robust knowledge of transoceanic exchange. You will also contribute to a digital humanities project that will create a visual database of motifs found on Japanese folding screens depicting the arrival of the Portuguese.#
&ASIAN 6602 | Topics in South Asian Culture and Literature&
#Topics will address South Asian culture and literature and change in relation to curricular needs within the Department of Asian Studies.#
&ASIAN 6613 | Southeast Asian Bibliography and Research Methods&
#Covers practical bibliographical skills and research methods necessary to accomplish quality research in the field of Southeast Asian Studies. During the semester we will explore resources available at the Cornell University Libraries, those provided through Library subscription, and resources available elsewhere.#
&ASIAN 6624 | Objects, Rituals, and Tea&
#Tea is a ubiquitous commodity across time and cultures. The craze for tea has become a global phenomenon. The goal of this course is not only to elucidate the exchanges and transmissions that gave rise to the phenomenon, but also to unpack the definition of tea culture through the exploration of objects and rituals. How are tea objects related to rituals, etiquette, and movement? What do tea objects reveal about craftsmen/craftswomen and collectors? How are the objects related to religious, political, social, and economic environments of their times? Lastly, what is the importance of tea culture in shaping national and cultural identity in modern East Asia?#
&ASIAN 6644 | Threads of Consequence: Textiles in South and Southeast Asia&
#This seminar explores how patterned cloths serve as a symbolic medium, functioning on multiple levels of understanding and communication. As spun, dyed, and woven threads of consequence, textiles can be seen to enter into all phases of social, economic, political, religious, and performance processes, often assuming unusual properties and attributes. As bearers of talismanic messages, signifiers of rank, and as the recipients of influences from maritime trade and touristic demand, textiles are read between the folds of complex exchange mechanisms in South and Southeast Asia.#
&ASIAN 6661 | China's Early Modern&
#Theories of modernization have inspired, informed, and plagued histories of middle and late imperial China. For the Song-Qing eras (roughly 10th-19th centuries), comparative studies have variously found and sought to explain modernization emerging earlier than in Europe, an absence of modernization, or alternative paths of modernization.  Regional models have argued for pan-East Asian systems and patterns of modernization. Global models have argued that China had a vital role in European development as a provenance of modernizing institutions and ideas, as a source of exploited resources, or otherwise as an integral part of global systems. In this course we explore these historiographical debates and develop critical perspectives, including approaches to escaping Eurocentric and teleological frameworks.#
&ASIAN 6677 | Ecocriticism, Indigeneity, and East Asia in Global Context&
#This interdisciplinary seminar examines the relationship between literature and the environment in an East Asian and global context. We will explore key questions and approaches in the fields of ecocriticism and the environmental humanities as they relate to ecological change in Korea, China, and Japan. How does literature make environmental crises, their effects on sentient beings, and the earth itself more visible? In what ways does storytelling give voice to changing relationships between humans and the more-than-human world? The seminar will engage the significant conceptual contributions Indigenous thinkers from Asia and the Americas have contributed to ecocriticism as we examine how poets, novelists, filmmakers, artists, nonfiction writers, and critics have responded creatively to environmental change.#
&ASIAN 6681 | Systems Theory and Asia Critique&
#The history of systems theory involves complex stories of technoscientific change and knowledge production on a global scale. In recent years, scholars have increasingly moved away from the field's predominantly North American and European focuses to study instead how systems theory's thinking of dynamic interrelations, and the related area of cybernetics research on self-organization and recursivity have developed in major Asian societies. This course first explores the epistemological foundations of systems theory before studying its major developments and historical case studies in the PRC, Taiwan, Singapore, and Malaysia. We will then examine systems theory and cybernetics' impacts on questions of technocratic governance, biopolitics, economy, gender and sexuality, and cultural and aesthetic production.#
&ASIAN 6696 | Transnational Local: Southeast Asian History from the Eighteenth Century&
#Surveys the modern history of Southeast Asia with special attentions to colonialism, the Chinese diaspora, and socio-cultural institutions. Considers global transformations that brought "the West" into people's lives in Southeast Asia. Focuses on the development of the modern nation-state, but also questions the narrative by incorporating groups that are typically excluded. Assigns primary texts in translation.#
&ASIAN 6699 | Mapping the Black Pacific(s): Afro-Asian Encounters&
#This seminar investigates the emergent concept of the Black Pacific, an area that scholars across multiple disciplines in recent years have begun to shed new light on. This course is designed to encourage an exploration of various methods including autobiography, video, film and others. This seminar seeks to examine the histories of African descendants to Asia via the Pacific rim and consider the ways in the varying concepts of Blackness itself may look different if we center our gaze on the trans-Pacific world. The term "Mapping" in the course title is in response to the often-overlooked encounters between peoples of African and Asian descent and the presence of African descendants in this region.#
&ASIAN 6703 | The Glitch: Errors, Disability, and the Edges of Digital Media&
#A "glitch" is when something goes "wrong" in digital media—sometimes, however, it is precisely when something "fails" that can tell us about the structures and forces that underlie that media. In this course we'll be exploring a wide variety of examples of how media creators, artists, hackers, game developers, Deaf and disability activists, and other marginalized groups from across the world (with a particular focus on Japan) have used "glitches" to tell us something new about the digital, looking at works ranging from electronic literature to online horror stories to experimental video games and installation art.#
&ASIAN 7704 | Directed Research&
#Guided independent study for graduate students.#
&ASIAN 7713 | Religion and Politics in Southeast Asia&
#This course explores how religious beliefs and practices in Southeast Asia have been transformed by the combined forces of colonialism, nationalism, and globalization. By examining both diversity and resurgence in one of the world's most rapidly modernizing regions, we aim to understand the common economic, social, and political conditions that are contributing to the popularity of contemporary religious movements. At the same time, we also consider the unique ideological, theological, and cultural understandings behind different religions and movements. Through this process we also rethink conceptions of modernity.#


$ASL | American Sign Language$
&ASL 1100 | Survey of American Sign Language and Deaf History&
#No description available.#
&ASL 1102 | American Sign Language II&
#This is the second in a sequence of courses in American Sign Language and Deaf Culture offered at Cornell. This course is a continuation of ASL 1101 and focuses on development of conversational and storytelling skills in ASL. Grammatical principles and functions will be emphasized. Appropriate cultural behaviors and conversational regulators in ASL will continue to be an important part of class. Readings and class discussions will acquaint students with American Deaf culture and social issues related to the Deaf community.#
&ASL 2202 | Intermediate American Sign Language II&
#This course is a continuation of ASL 2201, comprehension and production skills emphasizing on complex grammar, short stories, narratives, and interactive use of ASL. The student will continue a study in depth about the Deaf Community and Deaf Culture globally.#
&ASL 2301 | Modern Deaf Culture&
#This course, taught by a culturally Deaf individual, will offer students an opportunity of learning first-hand about a culture within the American cultural context, with constructions of Deaf people as a linguistic minority. A major focus of this course is to bring students to an understanding of how differently the world can be viewed through "Deaf eyes" and how understanding this worldview can account for views toward the teaching and enculturation of deaf children, Deafhood, biomedical ethics, oppression of signed languages, the provision of accommodations under the Americans with Disabilities Act, and a host of other issues at the interface between hearing and Deaf cultures.#
&ASL 3215 | Deaf Art, Film and Theatre&
#This course will explore approaches to the Deaf experience taken by Deaf artists from the 1900s to the present. Analysis of chosen works of Deaf art, film and theater will illuminate the expression of the Deaf narrative through symbolism, themes, and genres. We will examine the interaction of these works in multiple social, historical, cultural and political contexts and how they have contributed to the construction of Deaf culture and identity. This course will be taught in advanced ASL, with emphasis on the production and comprehension of academic ASL.#


$ASRC | Africana Studies & Research Center$
&ASRC 1202 | Elementary Arabic II&
#This two-course sequence assumes no previous knowledge of Arabic and provides a thorough grounding in the four language skills of listening, speaking, reading, and writing. It starts with the alphabet and the number system and builds the four skills gradually and systematically through carefully selected and organized materials focusing on specific, concrete and familiar topics such as self identification, family, travel, food, renting an apartment, study, the weather, etc.). These topics are listed in the textbook's table of contents.  The student who successfully completes the two-course sequence will have mastered about 1000 basic words and will be able to: 1) understand and actively participate in conversations on a limited range of practical topics such as self-identification, family, school, work, the weather, travel, etc., 2) read and understand, with the help of a short list of words, passages of up to 180 words written in Arabic script, and 3) discuss orally in class and write a 50-word paragraph in Arabic.  The two-course sequence aims to take the student from the Novice to the Intermediate Mid level according to the ACTFL proficiency guidelines.#
&ASRC 1500 | Introduction to Africana Studies&
#At the inception of this department at Cornell University in 1969, the Africana Studies and Research Center became the birthplace of the field "Africana studies." Africana studies emphasizes comparative and interdisciplinary studies of Africa, the U.S., the Caribbean and other diasporas. In this course, we will look at the diverse contours of the discipline. We will explore contexts ranging from modernity and the Trans-Atlantic slave trade and plantation complex in the New World to processes of decolonization and globalization in the contemporary digital age. This course offers an introduction to the study of Africa, the U.S., the Caribbean and other diasporas. This course will examine, through a range of disciplines, among them literature, history, politics, philosophy, the themes - including race/racism, the Middle Passage, sexuality, colonialism, and culture - that have dominated Africana Studies since its inception in the late-1960s. We will explore these issues in an attempt to understand how black lives have been shaped in a historical sense; and, of course, the effects of these issues in the contemporary moment. This course seeks to introduce these themes, investigate through one or more of the disciplines relevant to the question, and provide a broad understanding of the themes so as to enable the kind of intellectual reflection critical to Africana Studies.#
&ASRC 1821 | FWS: Listen to Understand: Writing Black Performance & Black Lives&
#No description available.#
&ASRC 1860 | FWS: A Dream, not a Nightmare: Martin Luther King, Jr. and the Quest for Justice&
#What are your "dreams" and how do you articulate and communicate them to others, especially in writing? This course primarily serves as your writing laboratory with the objective of helping students think critically and write clearly as they seek to understand the ethical framework underpinning MLK's nonviolent active resistance and its applicability to our contemporary quest for justice. The primary text for this course is A Testament of Hope: The Essential Writings and Speeches of Martin Luther King Jr. which encompasses MLK's writings including his historic public addresses, letters, sermons, interviews, books, and essays that will serve as templates for learning various types of writings. This course challenges students to "dream" freely, think critically, and write clearly using the informal and formal writing assignments.#
&ASRC 1862 | FWS: Black Faith Writing Matters&
#No description available.#
&ASRC 1900 | Research Strategies in Africana and Latino Studies&
#The digital revolution has made an enormous amount of information available to research scholars, but discovering resources and using them effectively can be challenging. This course introduces students with research interests in Latino and Africana Studies to search strategies and methods for finding materials in various formats (e.g., digital, film, and print) using information databases such as the library catalog, print and electronic indexes, and the World Wide Web. Instructors provide equal time for lecture and hands-on learning. Topics include government documents, statistics, subject-specific online databases, social sciences, the humanities, and electronic citation management.#
&ASRC 1976 | Recreating the Caribbean: Migration and Identity in Contemporary Caribbean History&
#Waves of voluntary and forced migrants and their imposition on indigenous communities led to radically new societies in the Caribbean. Though popularized as tropical paradises, the Caribbean has one of the highest rates of emigration in the world. Revolutions, wars of independence and socio-economic and political marginalization has led to the formation of Caribbean diasporic communities in Central America, North America, Europe and Africa. These diasporic communities are also transnational spaces because emigrants retain important social, economic and political connections to their countries of origin. Drawing on specific case studies this course considers three interconnecting questions – What factors led to sustained emigration? Why did migrants' settle in specific countries? How have Caribbean diasporic communities reshaped their natal communities and their new homes?#
&ASRC 2200 | Intermediate Arabic II&
#In this two-course sequence learners continue to develop the four language skills of listening, speaking, reading, and writing and grammar foundation through the extensive use of graded materials on a wide variety of topics.  While more attention is given to developing native-like pronunciation and to grammatical accuracy than in ARAB 1201 and ARAB 1202, the main focus of the course will be on encouraging fluency and facility in understanding the language and communicating ideas in it.  The student who successfully completes this two-course sequence will have mastered over 1500 new words and will be able to: 1) understand and actively participate in conversations related to a wide variety of topics beyond those covered in ARAB 1201 and ARAB 1202, such as the history and geography of the Arab world, food and health, sports, economic matters, the environment, politics, the Palestine problem, etc. 2) read and understand, with the help of a short list of words, passages of up to 300 words, and 3) discuss orally in class and write a 150-word paragraph in Arabic with fewer grammatical errors than in ARAB 1202.  The two-course sequence aims to take the student from the Intermediate Mid to the Advanced Mid level according to the ACTFL proficiency guidelines.#
&ASRC 2204 | Introduction to Quranic Arabic&
#This course is designed for students who are interested in reading the language of the Qur'an with accuracy and understanding. The first week (4 classes) will be devoted to an introduction of the history of the Qur'an: the revelation, collection, variant readings, and establishment of an authoritative edition. The last week will be devoted to a general overview of "revisionist" literature on the Qur'an. In the remaining 12 weeks, we will cover all of Part 30 (Juz' 'Amma, suuras 78-114) and three suuras of varying length (36, 19, and 12).#
&ASRC 2317 | Histories of the African Diaspora&
#This seminar will introduce students to the expanding and dynamic historiography of the African diaspora. The most astute scholars of the African diaspora argue that diaspora is not to be conflated with migration for diaspora includes the cultural and intellectual work that constructs and reinforces linkages across time and space. Much of the early historiography of the African diaspora disproportionately focused on Anglophone theorists whose intellectual output engaged thinkers and communities in Anglophone West Africa, Britain, the Caribbean and the United States. Recent interventions in the historiography of the African diaspora has significantly broadened its geographical conceptualization by including a larger segment of Western Europe, Latin America and Asia. In addition, scholars of Africa are increasingly exploring topics in the African diaspora. Using a range of archival and secondary sources, students will explore the material, cultural and intellectual factors that are remaking the historiography of the African diaspora.#
&ASRC 2322 | Black Religion and Pop Culture&
#This course uses art and popular culture to provide a dynamic view of Black religion in the United States and the Diaspora throughout the twentieth and twenty-first centuries. Discussion topics include: religiosity in the visual art of Kara Walker, P-Valley's Hoodoo representation, and James Baldwin's Black Sanctified aesthetics. By engaging broadly with visual art, film, music, and television, students will gain a sense of the various religious and spiritual traditions that pervade contemporary popular culture and gain the ability to think critically about how religious themes show up on television, in music, and in the world around them.#
&ASRC 2380 | Performing Hip Hop&
#This course is a hybrid seminar/performance forum that combines scholarly exploration of hip hop musical aesthetics with applied performance. Students will engage in online and in-class discussions of hip hop musical aesthetics, contextualized historically, socially, and culturally through weekly reading and listening assignments. They will also devote significant time to creating and workshopping individual and collaborative musical projects. Formal musical training is not required, but students should have experience making music (instrumentalists, beat makers, lyricists, vocalists, beatboxers, etc.), and should have at least a basic familiarity with hip hop music. Students who wish to enroll in the course should contact the professor for more information.#
&ASRC 2515 | Freedom Struggles in Southern Africa&
#This course will examine southern African definitions of freedom and methods and tactics used in the fight for freedom. It will investigate how different thinkers defined political and personal freedom and how they pursued it, paying careful attention to changing definitions and practices over time, and to the specificity of the southern African region, long a site of global and regional exchange. The course will consider major figures like Nelson Mandela but will also explore lesser-known histories of women's freedom struggles and grassroots and community movements to define a free society. It will emphasize the plurality and diversity of southern African theorizations of freedom. The course will engage with historiographical debates in the field of 'liberation histories', and will use diverse primary source materials, including trial documents, memoirs, political speeches and tracts, and novels.#
&ASRC 2688 | Cleopatra's Egypt: Tradition and Transformation&
#Following the conquests of Alexander, the ancient civilization of Egypt came under Greek rule. This period is best known for its famous queen Cleopatra, the last independent ruler of ancient Egypt. But even before Cleopatra's life and death, the Egypt that she governed was a fascinating place – and a rich case study in cultural interactions under ancient imperialism. This course explores life in Egypt under Greek rule, during the three centuries known as the Ptolemaic period (named after Cleopatra's family, the Ptolemaic dynasty). We will examine the history and culture of Ptolemaic Egypt, an empire at the crossroads of Africa, the Near East, and the Mediterranean. We will explore the experiences of Egyptians, Greeks, and others living in this multi-cultural, multi-ethnic, and multi-linguistic society. Finally, we will investigate the ways that Ptolemaic Egypt can shed light on modern experiences of imperialism, colonialism, and globalization.#
&ASRC 3101 | Advanced Arabic II&
#In this two-semester sequence, learners will be introduced to authentic, unedited Arabic language materials ranging from short stories, and poems, to newspaper articles dealing with social,  political,  and cultural issues. Emphasis will be on developing fluency in oral expression through discussions of issues presented in the reading and listening selections. There will be more focus on the development of native-like pronunciation and accurate use of grammatical structures than in the previous four courses. A primary objective of the course is the development of the writing skill through free composition exercises in topics of interest to individual students.  This course starts where ARAB 2202 leaves off and continues the development of the four language skills and grammar foundation using 18 themes, some new and some introduced in previous courses but are presented here at a more challenging level.  The student who successfully completes this two-course sequence have mastered over 3000 new words and will be able, within context of the 18 new and recycled themes to: 1) understand and actively participate in conversations, 2) read and understand, with the help of a short list of words, authentic, unedited passages of up to 400 words, and 3) discuss orally in class and write a 300-word paragraph in Arabic with fewer grammatical errors than in ARAB 2202.  The two-course sequence aims to take the student from the Advanced Mid to the Superior level according to the ACTFL proficiency guidelines.#
&ASRC 3334 | Black Body Politics: Histories, Theories, and Debates&
#The body has been crucially important to Black liberation politics. Not only has it been a site of contestation and control, but it has also served as a productive site of protest, alliance, and collective action, in ways both real and imagined. This course explores the historical debates and theories surrounding the body with a particular focus on how blackness informs bodily meanings and negotiations across the African diaspora. Weekly topics will allow students to consider the metaphorical and material dimensions of the body while also interrogating the very concept of embodiment, the ways in which individual bodies are constituted and reconstituted over time.#
&ASRC 3345 | Global 1960s: Revolution from the College Campus to the Battle Grounds&
#This course explores the waves of rebellion, and reaction, that swept the globe in the 1960s. From Dakar to Havana, from Beijing to Paris, we will examine the events, social movements, actors, places and legacies of the 1960s. Each week will focus on a specific case study and a specific theme: we will be looking at the role of film in liberation, changing ideas of sex and the body, the role of drugs in global revolutionary movements, and what being a student meant in the 1960s. In many ways the 1960s set the tone for today's political and social debates. Over the next few months, we will try to understand how. This should help us get a better grasp of what has been happening on our campus and across the world this past year.#
&ASRC 3422 | Gospel and The Blues: A Black Women’s History II, 1973-2023&
#In her pathbreaking text Wayward Lives, Beautiful Experiments: Intimate Histories of Social Upheaval Saidiya Hartman writes that "young Black women were radical thinkers who tirelessly imagined other ways to live and never failed to consider how the world might be otherwise." This two-semester course endeavors to travel through those worlds using the cultural and musical forms of gospel and the blues as our compass. The second semester is guided by the work of scholars and writers like Maureen Mahon, Marla Frederick, Lynée Denise, and Deesha Philyaw and artists like the Clark Sisters, Aretha Franklin, Toni Braxton, and Beyoncé. Together we will interrogate the spectrum of lived experiences making for a kaleidoscopic sonic history of joy, pleasure, sorrow, resistance, and everything in between.#
&ASRC 3440 | Merchants, Whalers, Pirates, Sailors: Early American Sea-faring Literature&
#This course will look at how literature based at sea helps both shape and challenge concepts of freedom and capital. By looking at the relationship between the sea-faring economy and its relationship to American Expansion and the history of enslavement we will explore how literature based at sea provided both a reflection and an alternate reality to land-based politics. While the main focus of the course will be nineteenth-century literature, we will also be exploring maritime literature of the twentieth and twenty-first centuries and its analogues in speculative fiction.#
&ASRC 3508 | African American Literature: 1930s - present&
#In 1940, with the publication of his novel Native Son, Richard Wright helped to launch the protest era in African American literature. This course focuses on the development of key fiction and nonfiction genres that have shaped the development of African American literature from the mid-20th-century to the contemporary era. Genres that we will consider include poetry, fiction, the essay, the speech, autobiography, and the novel. We will explore the main periods in this literature's development such as the Black Arts movement of the 1960s and the black women's literary renaissance of the 1970s, and consider the rise of science fiction writing. Authors who will be considered include Richard Wright, Ann Petry, Ralph Ellison, Gwendolyn Brooks, James Baldwin, Lorraine Hansberry, Malcolm X, Amiri Baraka, Nikki Giovanni, Maya Angelou, Toni Morrison, Alice Walker, Ishmael Reed, and August Wilson. We will also incorporate discussion of works in film and art that have been the outgrowth of writing y African American authors. The course will include screenings of scenes from the class film A Raisin in the Sun, along with the films Dutchman and Beloved.#
&ASRC 3565 | Black Ecoliterature&
#Mainstream media would have us believe that driving a new Toyota Prius, recycling, and shopping "clean" at Whole Foods would make us all food environmentalists, right? Additionally, climate change and environmental degradation are often discussed as if they are phenomena that affect us all equally. Despite these dynamics, research in recent years tells us that while there might be some general ways that we experience our constantly changing physical environments—race, gender, and location very much affect how we experience "Nature." In this course we will use literature from across the African diaspora to investigate how looking at race, gender, and location produces very different ideas about environment, environmentalism, and "Nature" itself.#
&ASRC 3575 | Introduction to Black German Studies&
#During her time in Germany, the U.S. poet Audre Lorde (who described herself as "Black, lesbian, mother, warrior poet") sought out community and encouraged Black Germans to speak up and make themselves visible as Afro-Germans in a country that often ignored or invalidated their existences. This is one of many crucial moments in Black German history and Black German Studies. In this course will explore the histories, activism, literature, and scholarship that arise from Afro-German communities and have shaped the field of Black German Studies. We will engage with films, novels, poetry, short stories, graphic narratives, music videos, and scholarly essays. Considering the great variety of media and genres, we will spend class time not only developing a shared vocabulary to talk about each text, but we will also learn to apply differing methods of analysis in our class discussions and individual assignments.#
&ASRC 3590 | The Black Radical Tradition in the U.S.&
#This course provides a critical historical interrogation of what Black Marxism author Cedric Robinson called "the Black Radical Tradition." It will introduce students to some of the major currents in the history of black radical thought, action, and organizing, with an emphasis on the United States after World War I. It relies on social, political, and intellectual history to examine the efforts of black people who have sought not merely social reform, but a fundamental restructuring of political, economic, and social relations. We will define and evaluate radicalism in the shifting contexts of liberation struggles. We will explore dissenting visions of social organization and alternative definitions of citizenship, progress, and freedom. We will confront the meaning of the intersection of race, gender, class, and sexuality in social movements.#
&ASRC 3894 | Liberation Through Terror: Three Republican Dissenters&
#In the buildup to and in the aftermath of the Civil War, there were US politicians -- especially the Whigs -- who were not only anti-slavery but committed to a policy of nonaccommodationism with the South. Charles Sumner (Senator, MA), Thaddeus Stevens (Congressman, PA), and Benjamin Wade (Senator, OH) were among those US politicians who were opposed to Abraham Lincoln's comprising attitude toward the defeated South. It is Wade who offers the most trenchant critique of Lincoln's non-punitive policy in the aftermath of the Civil War. In short, Wade, Stevens, and Sumner advocated for the full enfranchisement of the newly liberated slaves, insisting that it was the freedmen who should be the nation's priority, not appeasing the defeated South. It is Wade who gives us the concept of "liberation through terror." If the freedmen, Wade argues in the parliamentary annals, were to assert themselves through violence against their Southern tormentors, the white South would quickly recognize their rights and not abrogate it, as was the case. This course takes up Wade's injunction by reading a series of texts that deal with the question of terror.#
&ASRC 3977 | Body Politics in African Literature, Cinema, and New Media&
#This course examines how writers, filmmakers, and content creators from Africa engage with and revise public images of bodies—specifically pleasure, queerness, sex strikes, etc. Our inquiry also surveys theorists' commitment to highlighting forms of self-fashioning and agency/responsibility in addition to troubling problematic tropes of pathologization and excess. These topical explorations will be achieved through analyses of storytelling, digitality, the aestheticization of violence, and social change theories. Through contemporary films, digital platforms, novels, and essays, we will reflect on the precarious yet empowering nature of the body. Public speaking (class discussions, student presentations) and deep attention to analysis and writing (reaction papers, an abstract, an annotated bibliography, and a final paper) will help you refine your understanding of body politics.This course examines how writers, filmmakers, and content creators from Africa engage with and revise public images of bodies—specifically pleasure, queerness, sex strikes, etc. Our inquiry also surveys theorists' commitment to highlighting forms of self-fashioning and agency/responsibility in addition to troubling problematic tropes of pathologization and excess. These topical explorations will be achieved through analyses of storytelling, digitality, the aestheticization of violence, and social change theories. Through contemporary films, digital platforms, novels, and essays, we will reflect on the precarious yet empowering nature of the body. Public speaking (class discussions, student presentations) and deep attention to analysis and writing (reaction papers, an abstract, an annotated bibliography, and a final paper) will help you refine your understanding of body politics.#
&ASRC 4102 | The Historical Geography of Black America&
#This course provides students with a challenging and interdisciplinary examination of race and space in North American history. It engages public history and critical geographic study through the lens of African Diasporic place-making from the early national period to the present day. How did Afro-descendant people in North America come to know the landscape and fashion communities around wilderness, swamps, urban cores and other "undesirable" areas? What material elements of black spaces came to define what is meant by slums and ghettos? This course illustrates how ongoing struggles that Black communities face with displacement and gentrification are part of a long history that developed alongside territorial expansion and nation building that charted uneven paths to prosperity based on race, gender, and class. This course is timely given that there are about 1,912 sites listed in the U.S. National Register of Historic Places Database as having significance to "Black" heritage and will help students develop their facilities for assigning meaning to these identified sites and what place these spaces have in the understanding of American history.#
&ASRC 4509 | Toni Morrison's Novels&
#In this course, we will engage in close and reflective critical readings of Toni Morrison's eleven novels. Morrison's writing style is characterized by highly distinctive strategies in the development of narrative and in the use of language. As we journey across her body of work as readers, we will examine a range of recurring themes, along with the "love trilogy" on which she focused her repertoire for several years. The course, through a comprehensive, chronological and focused look at Morrison's body of novels, will help students who entirely lack familiarity with it to gain a strong foundation for further research and study. By the end of the course, even students who already know Morrison's work will walk away with a deeper and more nuanced understanding of it. The course will help students to reinforce their skills in reading fiction, and more astute and exacting readers of the novel as a genre.#
&ASRC 4512 | The Global South Novel and World Literature&
#The driving dialectic in post-colonial studies has been the colonizer/colonized, or the Third World vs. the West. But slowly the field is letting go of this "arrested dialectic" and in its place various triangulations are emerging: e.g. transnationalism, world literature, the global novel, and global south literary studies. Starting with a walk through the emerging theoretical concepts of world/global/transnational literature, we will primarily focus on a global south reading of African literature (itself a contested term), and perennial questions around language and translation. Specifically we will look at how writers such as Chimamanda Adichie, V.S. Naipul, NoViolet Bulawayo, and MG Vassanji challenge the post-colonial discourse and how a global south reading provides an uncomfortable conversation with transnational and world literature theories and concepts.#
&ASRC 4602 | Women and Gender Issues in Africa&
#There are two contrasting views of the status and role of women in Africa. One view portrays African women as controlled by men in all social institutions. Another view projects women as having a relatively favorable position in indigenous societies where they were active, with an identity independent of men's; in they were not clustered in a private sphere of the home while men controlled the public sphere. This course examines critical gender theories and African women in historical and contemporary periods. The topics covered include: women in non-westernized/pre-colonial societies; the impact and legacy of colonial policies; access to education and knowledge; political and economic participation in local and global contexts; women's organizations; armed conflicts and peace; same-gender love and evolving family values; the law and health challenges; the United Nations and World Conferences on Women: Mexico 1975, Copenhagen 1980, Nairobi 1985, Beijing 1995, post-Beijing meetings, the 2010 superstructure of UN Women, and Beijing +20 in 2015 with the UN Women's slogan "Empowering Women, Empowering Humanity: Picture it!"#
&ASRC 4681 | Post-Conflict Justice and Resolution in Africa&
#No description available.#
&ASRC 4682 | Medicine and Healing in Africa&
#Therapeutic knowledge and practice in Africa have changed dynamically over the past century. Yet, questions about healing continue to be questions about the intimate ways that power works on bodies. Accounts of healing and medicine on the continent describe ongoing struggles over what counts as knowledge and who has the authority to intervene in social and physical threats. This class will discuss the expansion of biomedicine in Africa, the continuities and changes embodied in traditional medicine, and the shifting relationship between medicine, science and law. Our readings with trace how colonialism, post-independence nationalism, international development, environmental change and globalization have shaped the experience of illness, debility and misfortune today, as well as the possibilities for life, the context of care, and the meaning of death.#
&ASRC 4894 | Biopolitics and Apartheid: In Texts Philosophical and Literary&
#Taking Roberto Esposito's "Bios: Biopolitics and Philosophy" as its point of intervention, this course will think of South African apartheid as a biopolitical event. Using the philosophy of figures such as Michel Foucault, Friedrich Nietzsche, Baruch Spinoza and Jacques Derrida, as well as two South African literary texts, Ezekiel Mphahlele's "Down Second Avenue" and J.M. Coetzee's "The Life and Times of Michael K." this course grapples with the Esposito-derived difficulty: how, in an age when biopolitics is - viscerally, one could say - is understood as negative (that is, thanatopolitical), are we to think in the terms of an affirmative that Esposito proposes in "Bios?" Mphahlele and Coetzee write in very different historical moments, not to mention out of (racially) distinct literary registers. Mphahlele is widely recognized as the founding figure of urban black South African literature. "The Life and Times of Michael K.," on the other hand, is among the earlier work of the Nobel Laureate Coetzee. However, what they share is something on the order of an affirmative biopolitics. An affirmative biopolitics as understood in Esposito's terms. That is, both Mphahlele's "early" autobiography, detailing the coming-of-age of a disenfranchised young black man making his way in a segregated township, and Coetzee's title character, Michael K., another disenfranchised young man but in this case, one who abandons the apartheid city for an undisclosed rural environ, a place where undertakes to make a form of life that will untether him from all political dispositifs. Form of life is, in an insufficient word, how Esposito proposes "bios" - a politics of/for life that is not unaware of the negative but offers instead a mode of being in the world that pursues such a form as will enable it live.#
&ASRC 4901 | Honors Thesis&
#For senior Africana Studies majors working on an honors thesis, with selected reading, research projects, etc., under the supervision of a member of the Africana Studies and Research Center faculty.#
&ASRC 4903 | Independent Study&
#For students working on special topics, with selected reading, research projects, etc., under the supervision of a member of the Africana Studies and Research Center faculty.#
&ASRC 6102 | The Historical Geography of Black America&
#This course provides students with a challenging and interdisciplinary examination of race and space in North American history. It engages public history and critical geographic study through the lens of African Diasporic place-making from the early national period to the present day. How did Afro-descendant people in North America come to know the landscape and fashion communities around wilderness, swamps, urban cores and other "undesirable" areas? What material elements of black spaces came to define what is meant by slums and ghettos? This course illustrates how ongoing struggles that Black communities face with displacement and gentrification are part of a long history that developed alongside territorial expansion and nation building that charted uneven paths to prosperity based on race, gender, and class. This course is timely given that there are about 1,912 sites listed in the U.S. National Register of Historic Places Database as having significance to "Black" heritage and will help students develop their facilities for assigning meaning to these identified sites and what place these spaces have in the understanding of American history.#
&ASRC 6209 | The Idea of Africana Past and Present&
#This seminar grapples with the idea of Africa as symbol, metaphor, imaginary, and real; received, constructed, and self-enacting; a status, condition, and state of mind; performed, executed, or captured.#
&ASRC 6210 | African in the World I: Alpha&
#No description available.#
&ASRC 6334 | Black Body Politics&
#No description available.#
&ASRC 6422 | Gospel and The Blues: A Black Women’s History II, 1973-2023&
#In her pathbreaking text Wayward Lives, Beautiful Experiments: Intimate Histories of Social Upheaval Saidiya Hartman writes that "young Black women were radical thinkers who tirelessly imagined other ways to live and never failed to consider how the world might be otherwise." This two-semester course endeavors to travel through those worlds using the cultural and musical forms of gospel and the blues as our compass. The second semester is guided by the work of scholars and writers like Maureen Mahon, Marla Frederick, Lynée Denise, and Deesha Philyaw and artists like the Clark Sisters, Aretha Franklin, Toni Braxton, and Beyoncé. Together we will interrogate the spectrum of lived experiences making for a kaleidoscopic sonic history of joy, pleasure, sorrow, resistance, and everything in between.#
&ASRC 6448 | Biopolitics and Apartheid: In Texts Philosophical and Literary&
#Taking Roberto Esposito's "Bios: Biopolitics and Philosophy" as its point of intervention, this course will think of South African apartheid as a biopolitical event. Using the philosophy of figures such as Michel Foucault, Friedrich Nietzsche, Baruch Spinoza and Jacques Derrida, as well as two South African literary texts, Ezekiel Mphahlele's "Down Second Avenue" and J.M. Coetzee's "The Life and Times of Michael K." this course grapples with the Esposito-derived difficulty: how, in an age when biopolitics is - viscerally, one could say - is understood as negative (that is, thanatopolitical), are we to think in the terms of an affirmative that Esposito proposes in "Bios?" Mphahlele and Coetzee write in very different historical moments, not to mention out of (racially) distinct literary registers. Mphahlele is widely recognized as the founding figure of urban black South African literature. "The Life and Times of Michael K.," on the other hand, is among the earlier work of the Nobel Laureate Coetzee. However, what they share is something on the order of an affirmative biopolitics. An affirmative biopolitics as understood in Esposito's terms. That is, both Mphahlele's "early" autobiography, detailing the coming-of-age of a disenfranchised young black man making his way in a segregated township, and Coetzee's title character, Michael K., another disenfranchised young man but in this case, one who abandons the apartheid city for an undisclosed rural environ, a place where undertakes to make a form of life that will untether him from all political dispositifs. Form of life is, in an insufficient word, how Esposito proposes "bios" - a politics of/for life that is not unaware of the negative but offers instead a mode of being in the world that pursues such a form as will enable it live.#
&ASRC 6602 | Women and Gender Issues in Africa&
#There are two contrasting views of the status and role of women in Africa. One view portrays African women as controlled by men in all social institutions. Another view projects women as having a relatively favorable position in indigenous societies where they were active, with an identity independent of men's; in they were not clustered in a private sphere of the home while men controlled the public sphere. This course examines critical gender theories and African women in historical and contemporary periods. The topics covered include: women in non-westernized/pre-colonial societies; the impact and legacy of colonial policies; access to education and knowledge; political and economic participation in local and global contexts; women's organizations; armed conflicts and peace; same-gender love and evolving family values; the law and health challenges; the United Nations and World Conferences on Women: Mexico 1975, Copenhagen 1980, Nairobi 1985, Beijing 1995, post-Beijing meetings, the 2010 superstructure of UN Women, and Beijing +20 in 2015 with the UN Women's slogan "Empowering Women, Empowering Humanity: Picture it!"#
&ASRC 6681 | Post-Conflict Justice and Resolution in Africa&
#No description available.#
&ASRC 6865 | Martin Luther King, Jr.&
#This seminar is an intensive study of the political thought of W.E.B. Du Bois and Martin Luther King, Jr. Approaching texts in contexts, we will read works including The Souls of Black Folk, Darkwater, Black Reconstruction in America, Stride toward Freedom, and Where Do We Go from Here? as illocutionary interventions in major political crises and ideological disputes of twentieth century Black political thought. Topics we will explore include freedom and dignity, slavery and its afterlives, racial capitalism, leadership and mass politics, democracy and abolition, empire and decolonization, political aesthetics, and the politics of prophetic critique. We will pay special attention to Du Bois and King's respective contributions in national and transnational contexts of the global color line.#
&ASRC 6894 | Liberation through Terror: Three Republican Dissenters&
#In the buildup to and in the aftermath of the Civil War, there were US politicians -- especially the Whigs -- who were not only anti-slavery but committed to a policy of nonaccommodationism with the South. Charles Sumner (Senator, MA), Thaddeus Stevens (Congressman, PA), and Benjamin Wade (Senator, OH) were among those US politicians who were opposed to Abraham Lincoln's comprising attitude toward the defeated South. It is Wade who offers the most trenchant critique of Lincoln's non-punitive policy in the aftermath of the Civil War. In short, Wade, Stevens, and Sumner advocated for the full enfranchisement of the newly liberated slaves, insisting that it was the freedmen who should be the nation's priority, not appeasing the defeated South. It is Wade who gives us the concept of "liberation through terror." If the freedmen, Wade argues in the parliamentary annals, were to assert themselves through violence against their Southern tormentors, the white South would quickly recognize their rights and not abrogate it, as was the case. This course takes up Wade's injunction by reading a series of texts that deal with the question of terror.#
&ASRC 6901 | Independent Study&
#Independent study course in topics not covered in regularly scheduled courses. Students select a topic in consultation with the faculty member who has agreed to supervise the course work.#
&ASRC 6903 | Africana Studies Graduate Seminar&
#This class is the second in a two-part course sequence offered in the fall and spring semesters annually. In this hybrid theory and methods course, students will read historiographic, ethnographic, and sociological engagements about African-descended people throughout the Diaspora.#
&ASRC 7682 | Medicine and Healing in Africa&
#Healing and medicine are simultaneously individual and political, biological and cultural. In this class, we will study the expansion of biomedicine in Africa, the continuities and changes embodied in traditional medicine, and the relationship between medicine, science and law. We will explore the questions African therapeutics poses about the intimate ways that power works on and through bodies. Our readings will frame current debates around colonial and postcolonial forms of governance through medicine, the contradictions of humanitarianism and the health crisis in Africa, and the rise of new forms of therapeutic citizenship. We will examine the ways in which Africa is central to the biopolitics of the contemporary global order.#


$ASTRO | Astronomy$
&ASTRO 1102 | Our Solar System&
#The past few decades have seen incredible advances in the exploration of our solar system. In this course students learn about the current state and past evolution of the Sun and its family of planets, moons, asteroids, and comets. The course emphasizes images and other data obtained from current and past NASA space missions and how these data provide insights about the important processes that have shaped the evolution of solar system objects. General astronomical concepts relevant to the study of the solar system are also discussed. Critical focus is on developing an understanding of the Earth as a planetary body and discovering how studies of other planets and satellites influence models of the climatic, geologic, and biologic history of our home world. Other topics covered include energy production in stars, global warming, impact hazards, the search for life in the solar system and beyond, and future missions.#
&ASTRO 2201 | The History of the Universe&
#General discussion of how the universe has evolved since the Big Bang era and how our understanding of it has changed from ancient to modern times. Several main themes are covered over the course of the semester: the evolution of our view of the sky from that of ancient cultures to that of space telescopes; the formation and nature of black holes; dark matter and dark energy; and the origin, evolution, and fate of the universe. Presents a nonmathematical introduction to these subjects and discusses uncertainties and unresolved issues in our understanding.#
&ASTRO 2212 | The Solar System: Planets, Small Bodies and New Worlds&
#Introduction to the solar system with emphasis on the quantitative application of simple physical principles to the understanding of what we observe or can deduce. Topics include: planetary orbital and spin dynamics, tidal evolution, the interiors, surfaces, and atmospheres of the planets including the effects of greenhouse gases on climate, and smaller bodies such as satellites, asteroids and comets. Comparisons will be made between planetary systems discovered about other stars and our own solar system. Results from past and current spacecraft missions will be discussed. Final grades will depend on homework sets and on a final team project and in-class presentation, supported by a joint term paper. The course is more in-depth and quantitative than ASTRO 1102/ASTRO 1104. All course materials will be available online.#
&ASTRO 3310 | Planetary Image Processing with MATLAB&
#Reviews basic techniques employed in the collection and processing of spacecraft images of solar system objects using MATLAB. Experience with MATLAB is not strictly necessary, but some general experience with computer programming is preferred.#
&ASTRO 4432 | Astrophysical Processes&
#Astronomers learn about cosmic phenomena via radiation: electromagnetic (photons), non-photonic (neutrinos, cosmic rays), and, within the past decade, gravitational. So, it is essential to understand how radiation is produced, the interactions it experiences as it travels through the universe, and how these processes can be observed and interpreted. This course will provide a broad overview of primarily electromagnetic radiation, although we will briefly discuss other forms.#
&ASTRO 4434 | Physics of the Planets&
#An upper-level undergraduate introduction to Planetary Science with an emphasis on the application of basic physical principles. Topics to be covered include: planetary dynamics, including satellite orbits, tidal interactions, orbital resonances; an introduction to the theory of planetary interiors, heat sources and rotational mechanics; reflected and thermal radiation; radiative transfer and equilibrium structures of planetary atmospheres.#
&ASTRO 4940 | Independent Study in Astronomy&
#Individuals work on selected topics. A program of study is devised by the student and instructor.#
&ASTRO 6510 | General Relativity II&
#A continuation of PHYS 6553 and ASTRO 6509 that covers a variety of advanced topics and applications of general relativity in astrophysics, cosmology, and high-energy physics.#
&ASTRO 6511 | High Energy Astrophysics&
#Compact objects (neutron stars, black holes and white dwarfs) are the endpoints of stellar evolution. They are responsible for some of the most exotic phenomena in the universe such as supernovae, magnetars, gamma-ray bursts, neutron star and black hole mergers.  Supermassive black holes also lie at the heart of the violent processes in active galactic nuclei. The study of compact objects allows one to probe physics under extreme conditions (high densities, strong magnetic fields, and gravity). This course surveys the astrophysics of compact stars and related subjects. Emphasis is on the application of diverse theoretical physics tools to various observations of compact stars. There are no astronomy or general relativity prerequisites.#
&ASTRO 6530 | Astrophysical Processes&
#Astronomers learn about cosmic phenomena via radiation: electromagnetic (photons), non-photonic (neutrinos, cosmic rays), and, within the past decade, gravitational. So, it is essential to understand how radiation is produced, the interactions it experiences as it travels through the universe, and how these processes can be observed and interpreted. This course will provide a broad overview of primarily electromagnetic radiation, although we will briefly discuss other forms.#
&ASTRO 6570 | Physics of the Planets&
#A graduate-level introduction to Planetary Science with an emphasis on the application of basic physical principles. Topics to be covered include: planetary dynamics, including satellite orbits, tidal interactions, resonances and ring dynamics; an introduction to the theory of planetary interiors, gravitational fields, heat sources and rotational mechanics; reflected and thermal radiation; radiative transfer and equilibrium structure dynamics of planetary atmospheres.#
&ASTRO 6590 | Galaxies and the Universe&
#This course offers an overview of the fundamental physical processes shaping the large-scale structure of the universe, with an emphasis on galaxy morphology, dynamics, and evolution. Topics include galaxy formation, stellar feedback, the role of supermassive black holes, the influence of dark matter, and the impact of galactic mergers and gas accretion. Through a combination of observational evidence and theoretical frameworks, we will explore the development of galaxies across cosmic time, integrating key insights from both astrophysical and cosmological perspectives.#
&ASTRO 6940 | Advanced Study and Research&
#Guided reading and seminars on topics not currently covered in regular courses.#
&ASTRO 7683 | Seminar: Astronomy and Planetary Science&
#This course is a reading seminar where graduate students will gain astronomy breadth, practice public speaking, and distill important results from seminal astronomy research papers.#


$BCS | Bosnian, Croatian, Serbian$
&BCS 1132 | Elementary Bosnian-Croatian-Serbian II&
#By the end of this course, students will be able to carry on basic conversations in Bosnian/Croatian/Serbian on many topics from daily life. They should be able to make polite requests, ask for information, respond to requests and descriptions, impart personal information, and have simple discussions on familiar topics. They will also acquire the skills to read and understand simple informational texts, such as newspaper headlines and menus, announcements and advertisements, and to extract the general idea of longer informational texts. They will master the writing systems of the languages, and should be able to write notes or simple letters and keep a journal.#
&BCS 2134 | Intermediate Bosnian-Croatian-Serbian II&
#The intermediate course in BCS is a continuation of the elementary course and is intended to enhance overall communicative competence in the language. This course moves forward from the study of the fundamental systems and vocabulary of the Bosnian/Croatian/Serbian to rich exposure to the spoken and written language with the wide range of speakers and situations. The goal of the course is to give students practice in comprehension, speaking, and composition, while broadening their vocabulary and deepening their understanding of grammar and syntax. The course will focus on the following skills: conversation, writing, role-playing, interviewing, and summarizing. To develop these skills the students will be assigned dialogues, language exercises, translations, descriptions, summaries, and a final independent project.#


$BEE | Biological & Environmental Engineering$
&BEE 2000 | Perspectives on the Climate Change Challenge&
#This university-wide seminar series provides critically important perspectives on the grand challenge of climate change. Speakers from Cornell University and other institutions will cover a range of topics including the science of climate change, implications for ecosystems, oceans, forests, agriculture and communities, the important ethical, philosophical and legal insights on the issue, and provide thoughts on societal responses through international mechanisms, economic drivers and communication tools. This seminar series counts towards the requirements of the climate change minor and the ESS minor and major.#
&BEE 2220 | Sustainable Engineering Thermodynamics&
#The laws of thermodynamics are elegant statements about the conservation, nature, and behavior of energy in the universe. They are also the roadmap to designing and evaluating sustainable solutions to the world's most pressing challenges, from climate change to food insecurity to the energy crisis. After all, the problem of climate change is essentially an energy imbalance between the heat flow into and out of Earth. The goal of this course is to explore fundamental thermodynamic and kinetics concepts as they relate to key sustainability challenges. We will examine how the first and second laws of thermodynamics underpin life cycle analyses. We will use the concept of exergy to benchmark forms of energy and their potential to do work, enabling us to evaluate policies that promote sustainable solutions such as transportation fleet electrification and landfill diversion strategies. Together, we'll break down complex concepts such as Gibbs Free Energy and Chemical Potential to understand why pollutants move as mixtures in the environment and how the sea level is rising because of human activities.#
&BEE 3299 | Sustainable Development&
#Sustainable development is a predominant environmental, economic, and social concern of the 21st century. This course seeks to introduce students from across Cornell's colleges to key concepts of sustainable development and how they are integrated into life cycle analysis (LCA) assessments of sustainability. Students seeking to expand their knowledge of sustainable development through readings, videos, written assignments, and interaction with their peers are welcome to take the course.  Students learn to evaluate sustainability by carrying out a multi-phase LCA assessment from environmental, economic, and social perspectives throughout the semester for a system/product of their choice.  Over the course of the semester, work is posted on an e-portfolio to enable peer sharing and commenting. Course is solely asynchronous and web-based. Additional course information can be found at our Sustainable Development page.#
&BEE 3400 | Design and Analysis of Biomaterials&
#Covers the analysis of different types of biomaterials, synthetic or bio-derived, their synthesis, characterization and applications. The fundamental understanding of biomaterials chemistry and physics at the molecular level is emphasized. Mathematical analysis towards rational design of biomaterials is used throughout the course. In addition, examples from forefront biomaterials research will be used for case studies.#
&BEE 3710 | Physical Hydrology for Ecosystems&
#Introduction to physical hydrology with an emphasis on roles and interactions between hydrological processes and ecological, biogeochemical, and human systems.#
&BEE 3900 | Bio-Robotics&
#Introduction to bio-inspired and bio-enabled robotics across scales by an interdisciplinary approach, by gradually integrating knowledge in mechanical engineering and bioengineering. The concept and basic principles of biorobotics are discussed through macroscale robots in various fields including agriculture such as fruit picking robots. Homework includes programming, literature searches, and design studies of their own biorobots.#
&BEE 4500 | Bioinstrumentation&
#Bioinstrumentation applications are emphasized in this laboratory-based course. Electronic instruments from sensor to computer are considered. Static and dynamic characteristics of components and systems are examined theoretically and empirically. General analog and digital signal condition circuits are designed, constructed, and tested. A variety of biological applications of instrumentation are discussed. Lecture and lab only for 3 credits; lecture, lab and design project for 4 credits.#
&BEE 4530 | Computer-Aided Engineering: Applications to Biological Processes&
#Introduction to simulation-based design as an alternative to prototype-based design; modeling and optimization of complex real-life processes for design and research, using industry-standard physics-based computational software. Emphasis is on problem formulation, starting from a real process and developing its computer model. Modeling application (project) can be biomedical (thermal therapy and drug delivery) or broader biological and bioenvironmental applications that involve heat transfer, mass transfer, and fluid flow. Computational topics introduce the finite-element method, model validation, pre- and post-processing, and pitfalls of using computational software. Students choose their own semester-long project, which is a major part of the course (no final exam).#
&BEE 4550 | Biologically Inspired Microsystems Engineering&
#Covers fundamental mechanisms that nature uses to build and control living systems at micro- and nano-meter length scales; engineering principles for fabricating micro/nano-meter scale devices; examples of solving contemporary problems in the health sector and environment. The lab sessions will provide students with hands on experiences in cell culture, microfluidic device and live cell imaging techniques.  Lecture only for 2 credits; lecture and lab for 3 credits.#
&BEE 4630 | Digital Food Physics and Engineering&
#Mechanistic, model-based understanding and digital tools critically innovate in the design cycle for products and processes, food manufacturing is no exception. The course will introduce tools such as computational modeling, digital twins, and predictive knowledge bases, exploring deeper into the underlying universal physics-based frameworks describing transformations in food during processing. Grading is based on in-class and online quizzes, homework and project (no exams).#
&BEE 4670 | Applied Water Research In NYS&
#Every year, the New York State Water Resources Institute (NYSWRI) at Cornell supports applied research that addresses critical water resource problems in the New York State and the nation. This seminar series brings together researchers who work with NYSWRI and state agency partners to support and improve water management in the state. Speakers will present on a broad range of water related topics including water engineering and infrastructure, climate and flood resilience, water quality monitoring and assessment and aquatic ecosystems. The seminar will focus on ways in which robust science can support and influence on-ground management and policy outcomes, and center collaborative and interdisciplinary work between academics, water resource scientists, educators, managers, and policymakers in New York State.#
&BEE 4710 | Introduction to Groundwater&
#Fresh water has become a limited resource in many parts of the world. In arid and semi-arid regions, groundwater levels are declining at unstainable levels. In several industrial areas, groundwater is contaminated and unsuitable as potable water. This course will address the sustainability and pollution of groundwater by first understanding the theory of saturated and unsaturated flow and contaminant transport under ideal conditions. Subsequently, we learn to simplify groundwater systems in complex subsurface environments to obtain practical solutions. At the end of the course, the learned material will be put in a broader context as they are affected by natural or human actions. Throughout the course, guest speakers will discuss topics of current interest related to water. This elective course is intended for seniors interested in subsurface water and solute transport applications to sustainable groundwater use and prevention of pollution. Well-prepared EAS, CEE and BEE juniors are welcome, too.#
&BEE 4850 | Environmental Data Analysis and Simulation&
#Understanding data is an increasingly integral part of working with environmental systems. Data analysis is an integral part of developing statistical and numerical models to understand system dynamics and project future conditions and outcomes. Simulation from models can represent alternative datasets consistent with a set of assumptions about the underlying data-generating process, facilitating model assessment and hypothesis testing. This course will provide an overview of a generative approach to environmental data analysis, which uses simulation and assessments of predictive performance to provide insight into the structure of data and its data-generating process. The goal is to provide students with a framework and an initial toolkit of methods that they can use to formulate and update hypotheses about data and models. Students will actively analyze and use real data from a variety of environmental systems, potentially including the climate system, sea levels, air pollution, and the electric power system.#
&BEE 4880 | Applied Modeling and Simulation for Renewable Energy Systems&
#This course will provide an applied introduction to modeling, simulation and optimization techniques for various renewable energy systems. The course will be modular in nature. Each module will focus on a particular renewable energy application and relevant modeling/simulation tools. Some modules are independent and some will build on previous modules. The instructional format of the course will include lectures, scientific paper reviews, and some AMPL programming. Students will have an opportunity to apply new techniques to a relevant modeling project. The course will culminate with a modeling project relevant to renewable energy. Undergraduates will work in teams of 2-3 students to complete the term project.#
&BEE 4940 | Special Topics in Biological and Environmental Engineering&
#The department teaches trial courses under this number. Offerings vary by semester and will be advertised by the department. Courses offered under this number will be approved by the department curriculum committee and the same course will not be offered twice under this number. Each 4940 has a unique course ID for enrollment.#
&BEE 4970 | Individual Study in Biological and Environmental Engineering&
#Special work in any area of biological and environmental engineering on problems under investigation by the department or of special interest to the student, provided, in the latter case, that adequate facilities can be obtained.#
&BEE 4980 | Undergraduate Teaching&
#The student assists in teaching a biological and environmental engineering course appropriate to his or her previous training. The student meets with a discussion or laboratory section, prepares course materials, grades assignments, and regularly discusses objectives and techniques with the faculty member in charge of the course.#
&BEE 4990 | Undergraduate Research&
#Research in any area of biological or environmental engineering on problems under investigation by the department or of special interest to the student, provided that adequate facilities can be obtained. The student must review pertinent literature, prepare a project outline, carry out an approved plan, and submit a formal final report.#
&BEE 4993 | Honors Thesis&
#Intended for students pursuing the research honors program in BEE. This course is the culmination of the program's honors project requirement. Students enrolled in the BEE Honors program will prepare an honors thesis based on the subject matter of a BEE 4990 project from the previous semester, under the supervision of their BEE 4990 research mentor. A preliminary draft and the final copy will be submitted according to the deadline and formatting requirements of the Honors program.#
&BEE 5299 | Sustainable Development&
#Sustainable development is a predominant environmental, economic, and social concern of the 21st century. This course introduces the key concepts of sustainable development and how they are integrated into life cycle analysis (LCA) assessments of sustainability. Students seeking to expand their knowledge of sustainable development through readings, videos, written assignments, and interaction with their peers are welcome to take the course. Students learn to evaluate sustainability by carrying out a multi-phase LCA assessment from environmental, economic, and social perspectives throughout the semester for a system/product of their choice relevant to their majors. Over the course of the semester, work is posted on an e-portfolio to enable peer sharing and commenting. Course is solely asynchronous and web-based. This course follows the same trajectory as BEE 3299, but with greater required depth of research and extent of peer interaction. Additional course information can be found at our Sustainable Development page.#
&BEE 5330 | Engineering Professionalism&
#The primary focus is to prepare students for the Fundamentals of Engineering (FE) exam, which is the first step in obtaining a Professional Engineering license. Students complete a formal comprehensive review of engineering subjects associated with the FE exam. Engineering professionalism topics will be covered in some of the lectures or asynchronous videos.#
&BEE 5469 | Energy Seminar II&
#Energy Seminars will continue to explore energy-related topics of emerging, contemporary and historical interest. An abbreviated list of subjects explored in the seminars includes: global energy resources, energy generation technologies (present and future), energy storage options, environmental impacts and climate change mitigation, energy policy, and energy delivery economics and systems. Seminar speakers will be distinguished practicing engineers and executives from industry and government as well as faculty members from several departments at Cornell, and other academic institutions. Students from any department in Engineering or the Physical Sciences should find these talks informative.#
&BEE 5530 | Computer-Aided Engineering: Applications to Biological Processes&
#Introduction to simulation-based design as an alternative to prototype-based design; modeling and optimization of complex real-life processes for design and research, using industry-standard physics-based computational software. Emphasis is on problem formulation, starting from a real process and developing its computer model. Modeling application (project) can be biomedical (thermal therapy and drug delivery) or broader biological and bioenvironmental applications that involve heat transfer, mass transfer, and fluid flow. Computational topics introduce the finite-element method, model validation, pre- and post-processing, and pitfalls of using computational software. Students choose their own semester-long project, which is a major part of the course (no final exam).#
&BEE 5710 | Physical Hydrology for Ecosystems&
#Introduction to physical hydrology with an emphasis on roles and interactions between hydrological processes and ecological, biogeochemical, and human systems.#
&BEE 5850 | Environmental Data Analysis and Simulation&
#Understanding data is an increasingly integral part of working with environmental systems. Data analysis is an integral part of developing statistical and numerical models to understand system dynamics and project future conditions and outcomes. Simulation from models can represent alternative datasets consistent with a set of assumptions about the underlying data-generating process, facilitating model assessment and hypothesis testing. This course will provide an overview of a generative approach to environmental data analysis, which uses simulation and assessments of predictive performance to provide insight into the structure of data and its data-generating process. The goal is to provide students with a framework and an initial toolkit of methods that they can use to formulate and update hypotheses about data and models. Students will actively analyze and use real data from a variety of environmental systems, potentially including the climate system, sea levels, air pollution, and the electric power system.#
&BEE 5900 | Bio-Robotics&
#Introduction to bio-inspired and bio-enabled robotics across scales by an interdisciplinary approach, by gradually integrating knowledge in mechanical engineering and bioengineering. The concept and basic principles of biorobotics are discussed through macroscale robots in various fields including agriculture such as fruit picking robots. Homework includes programming, literature searches, and design studies of their own biorobots.#
&BEE 5952 | Master of Engineering Design Project&
#Comprehensive engineering design projects relating to the candidate's area of specialization. Projects are supervised by a BEE faculty member on an individual basis. A formal project report and oral presentation of the design project are required for completion of the course(s). A minimum of 6 to a maximum of 9 credits of BEE 5951-5952 is required for the M.Eng. degree.#
&BEE 6550 | Biologically Inspired Microsystems Engineering&
#Covers fundamental mechanisms that nature uses to build and control living systems at micro- and nano-meter length scales; engineering principles for fabricating micro/nano-meter scale devices; examples of solving contemporary problems in the health sector and environment. The lab sessions will provide students with hands on experiences in cell culture, microfluidic device and live cell imaging techniques. Graduate students will take a leadership role in the team projects (which consists of the mid-term presentation, final presentation, as well as lab).  Lecture only for 2 credits; lecture and lab for 3 credits.#
&BEE 6630 | Digital Food Physics and Engineering&
#Mechanistic, model-based understanding and digital tools critically innovate in the design cycle for products and processes, food manufacturing is no exception. The course will introduce tools such as computational modeling, digital twins, and predictive knowledge bases, exploring deeper into the underlying universal physics-based frameworks describing transformations in food during processing.#
&BEE 6670 | Applied Water Research In NYS&
#Every year, the New York State Water Resources Institute (NYSWRI) at Cornell supports applied research that addresses critical water resource problems in the New York State and the nation. This seminar series brings together researchers who work with NYSWRI and state agency partners to support and improve water management in the state. Speakers will present on a broad range of water related topics including water engineering and infrastructure, climate and flood resilience, water quality monitoring and assessment and aquatic ecosystems. The seminar will focus on ways in which robust science can support and influence on-ground management and policy outcomes, and center collaborative and interdisciplinary work between academics, water resource scientists, educators, managers, and policymakers in New York State.#
&BEE 6710 | Introduction to Groundwater&
#Fresh water has become a limited resource in many parts of the world. In arid and semi-arid regions, groundwater levels are declining at unstainable levels. In several industrial areas, groundwater is contaminated and unsuitable as potable water. This course will address the sustainability and pollution of groundwater by first understanding the theory of saturated and unsaturated flow and contaminant transport under ideal conditions. Subsequently, we learn to simplify groundwater systems in complex subsurface environments to obtain practical solutions. At the end of the course, the learned material will be put in a broader context as they are affected by natural or human actions. Throughout the course, guest speakers will discuss topics of current interest related to water. This elective course is intended for graduate students interested in subsurface water and solute transport applications to sustainable groundwater use and prevention of pollution.#
&BEE 6880 | Applied Modeling and Simulation for Renewable Energy Systems&
#This course will provide an applied introduction to modeling, simulation and optimization techniques for various renewable energy systems. The course will be modular in nature. Each module will focus on a particular renewable energy application and relevant modeling/simulation tools. Some modules are independent and some will build on previous modules. The instructional format of the course will include lectures, scientific paper reviews, and some AMPL programming. Students will have an opportunity to apply new techniques to a relevant modeling project. The course will culminate with a modeling project relevant to renewable energy. Graduate students will be required to complete the term project on an individual basis.#
&BEE 6940 | Graduate Special Topics in Biological and Environmental Engineering&
#The department teaches trial courses under this number. Offerings vary by semester and are advertised by the department. Courses offered under this number will be approved by the department curriculum committee and the same course will not be offered twice under this number. Each 6940 has a unique course ID for enrollment.#
&BEE 6970 | Graduate Individual Study in Biological and Environmental Engineering&
#Topics are arranged by the faculty at the beginning of the semester.#
&BEE 7710 | Soil and Water Engineering Seminar&
#Study and discussion of research or design procedures related to selected topics including watershed management, erosion control, hydrology, colloid transport, and water quality.#


$BENGL | Bengali$
&BENGL 1100 | Elements of Bangla-Bengali Language and Culture&
#This course will introduce foundational knowledge of Bangla language and elements of culture from Bangladesh and West Bengal to anyone interested in Bengal, e.g. those planning to travel to Bangladesh and West Bengal, India.#
&BENGL 1122 | Elementary Bangla-Bengali II&
#Enables students to read and comprehend basic Bangla texts as well as speak and write in the language.#
&BENGL 2202 | Intermediate Bangla-Bengali II&
#Continuing focus on reading, writing, and conversational skills, this course is designed to advance students' oral competence and enhance comprehension skills through reading, conversations, and listening.#
&BENGL 3302 | Advanced Bangla-Bengali II&
#Continuing instruction in Bangla at the advanced level focusing on conversation, interview, and discussion skills.#


$BIOAP | Animal Physiology & Anatomy$
&BIOAP 3160 | Cellular Physiology&
#A comprehensive course covering the general characteristics of eukaryotic cells; the structure, composition, and function of subcellular organelles; and the major signal transduction pathways regulating a variety of physiological cell activities. Among the main subjects covered are absorption and transport processes, mechanism of action of signaling molecules (hormones), the cell cycle and regulation of cell proliferation, cell-cell communication, extracellular matrix, stem cells, apoptosis, and carcinogenesis.#
&BIOAP 3300 | Fish Physiology&
#Fish Physiology is an introduction to the functional biology of fish. Lecture topics will cover cellular and tissue function within key physiological systems that help fish thrive in a wide range of aquatic habitats, from mountain streams to deep-sea vents. These systems will be illustrated using a diverse variety of fish, while broader comparisons between fish and higher vertebrates will also be drawn. Discussion will integrate aquaculture, fisheries, and environmental contexts, including some of the anthropogenic challenges that fish face today and what can be done to mitigate them. Students will perform a gross dissection to identify anatomy in situ and visit an aquaculture facility (there is no separate lab section).#
&BIOAP 4130 | Histology: The Biology of the Tissues&
#Provides students with a basis for understanding the microscopic, fine-structural, and functional organization of vertebrates (primarily mammals), as well as methods of analytic morphology at the cell and tissue levels. Emphasizes dynamic interrelations of structure, composition, and function in cells and tissues.#
&BIOAP 4140 | Principles of Pharmacology&
#Undergraduate course surveying system- and organ-related aspects of pharmacology. Topics include mechanisms of drug action; drug disposition; pharmacokinetics; autonomic pharmacology; pharmacology of inflammation, allergy and platelet function; and endocrine, cardiovascular, respiratory, gastrointestinal, and renal pharmacology. The course is designed for undergraduate life science majors, particularly those interested in medical or veterinary school.#
&BIOAP 4980 | Teaching Experience&
#Designed to give qualified undergraduate students teaching experience through actual involvement in planning and assisting in biology courses. This experience may include supervised participation in a discussion group, assisting in a biology laboratory, assisting in field biology, or tutoring.#
&BIOAP 5300 | Fish Physiology&
#Fish Physiology is an introduction to the functional biology of fish. Lecture topics will cover cellular and tissue function within key physiological systems that help fish thrive in a wide range of aquatic habitats, from mountain streams to deep-sea vents. These systems will be illustrated using a diverse variety of fish, while broader comparisons between fish and higher vertebrates will also be drawn. Discussion will integrate aquaculture, fisheries, and environmental contexts, including some of the anthropogenic challenges that fish face today and what can be done to mitigate them. Students will perform a gross dissection to identify anatomy in situ and visit an aquaculture facility (there is no separate lab section).#
&BIOAP 7100 | By Scientific Design: Skill Building for a Career in the Life Sciences II&
#A major goal in biomedical research is to translate advances in basic science into practically useful applications in clinical medicine. This class will provide graduate students with exposure to basic and clinical research, training in critical evaluation of the literature, foster creative thinking, and provide practice in oral defense.#


$BIOCB | Computational Biology$
&BIOCB 3620 | Dynamic Models and Data in Biology&
#No description available.#
&BIOCB 4830 | Quantitative Genomics and Genetics&
#A rigorous treatment of analysis techniques used to understand complex genetic systems. This course covers both the fundamentals and advances in statistical methodology used to analyze disease and agriculturally relevant and evolutionarily important phenotypes. Topics include mapping quantitative trait loci (QTLs), application of microarray and related genomic data to gene mapping, and evolutionary quantitative genetics. Analysis techniques include association mapping, interval mapping, and analysis of pedigrees for both single and multiple QTL models. Application of classical inference and Bayesian analysis approaches is covered and there is an emphasis on computational methods.#
&BIOCB 4910 | Advanced Population Genetics&
#This course covers the latest development and cutting-edge research topics in population genetics, aiming to enable students to perform research in population genetics. The first part will cover coalescent theory and inference involving complex demography. The second part will discuss natural selection and methods for inferring selection. We will allude to the complexity of demographic history and natural selection and their importance in explaining genomic patterns. The third part will introduce new data types and the challenges and opportunities with these data. We will dive into genotype likelihood and will emphasize the importance of simulation in population genetics. The course will be mostly delivered through lecturing, each interspersed with short conversations about reading assignments. Coursework involves reading literature, solving problem sets, and a course project.#
&BIOCB 6620 | Dynamic Models and Data in Biology&
#No description available.#
&BIOCB 6830 | Quantitative Genomics and Genetics&
#A rigorous treatment of analysis techniques used to understand complex genetic systems. This course covers both the fundamentals and advances in statistical methodology used to analyze disease and agriculturally relevant and evolutionarily important phenotypes. Topics include mapping quantitative trait loci (QTLs), application of microarray and related genomic data to gene mapping, and evolutionary quantitative genetics. Analysis techniques include association mapping, interval mapping, and analysis of pedigrees for both single and multiple QTL models. Application of classical inference and Bayesian analysis approaches is covered and there is an emphasis on computational methods.#
&BIOCB 6890 | Current Topics in Population Genomics&
#Graduate seminar on current topics in population genetics. Readings are chosen primarily from current scientific literature. Participation in discussion and presentation of at least one paper required for course credit.#
&BIOCB 6910 | Advanced Population Genetics&
#This course covers the latest development and cutting-edge research topics in population genetics, aiming to enable students to perform research in population genetics. The first part will cover coalescent theory and inference involving complex demography. The second part will discuss natural selection and methods for inferring selection. We will allude to the complexity of demographic history and natural selection and their importance in explaining genomic patterns. The third part will introduce new data types and the challenges and opportunities with these data. We will dive into genotype likelihood and will emphasize the importance of simulation in population genetics. The course will be mostly delivered through lecturing, each interspersed with short conversations about reading assignments. Coursework involves reading literature, solving problem sets, and a course project.#
&BIOCB 7200 | Statistical and Computational Genetics&
#Weekly seminar series on recent advances in computational genomics. A selection of the latest papers in the field are read and discussed. Methods are stressed, but biological results and their significance are also addressed.#
&BIOCB 7600 | Data-driven models in biology&
#No description available.#


$BIOEE | Ecology & Evolutionary Biology$
&BIOEE 1130 | The Art and Science of Birds&
#Art and science have always been fundamentally linked. Before the invention of photography, illustration was the main documentation tool in science; even now, artistic representations are used to communicate important scientific discoveries. In this course students learn the basics of bird anatomy in tandem with sketching techniques to foster an appreciation of how science and art can reinforce each other in enriching one's life and study. Led by the staff biological illustrator at the Cornell Lab of Ornithology, students begin with the fundamentals of observational drawing to improve accuracy before moving onto watercolors. Interwoven into art lessons are scientific lectures produced by Cornell ornithologists, blending art with current science to cover a range of interconnected topics.#
&BIOEE 1610 | Introductory Biology: Ecology and the Environment&
#This course provides an introduction to ecology, covering interactions between organisms and the environment at scales of populations, communities, and ecosystems. Ecological principles are used to explore the theory and applications of major issues facing humanity in the 21st century, including population dynamics, disease ecology, biodiversity and invasive species, global change, and other topics of environmental sustainability.#
&BIOEE 1780 | An Introduction to Evolutionary Biology and Diversity&
#Considers explanations for pattern of diversity and the apparent good fit of organisms to the environment. Topics include the diversity of life, the genetics and developmental basis of evolutionary change, processes at the population level, evolution by natural selection, modes of speciation, long-term trends in evolution, origin of humans.#
&BIOEE 1781 | Introduction to Evolution and Diversity&
#Considers explanations for pattern of diversity and the apparent good fit of organisms to the environment. Topics include the diversity of life, the genetics and developmental basis of evolutionary change, processes at the population level, evolution by natural selection, modes of speciation, long-term trends in evolution, origin of humans.#
&BIOEE 2740 | The Vertebrates: Comparative Anatomy, Function, Paleontology, and Evolution&
#This course in vertebrate organismal biology explores the anatomy and function of vertebrates with an emphasis on vertebrate evolution. Lectures cover topics such as the origin, anatomy, physiology, paleontology, and evolution of vertebrate groups, with a focus on organ systems (such as the nervous, circulatory, and respiratory systems), life history, locomotion, behavior, ecology, and conservation. This course prepares students for advanced courses on the biology of fishes, amphibians and reptiles, birds, and mammals; pre-vet and pre-med students benefit from its comparative anatomical approach to understanding the organization of the vertebrate body.#
&BIOEE 3550 | Data Analysis and Visualization in Ecology and Environmental Science&
#Ecology and Environmental Science are running into a 'big data' era. The unprecedented data sources provide opportunities for novel scientific exploration and solutions to real-world problems, which, however, usually requires robust quantitative analysis and informative visualization. This course aims to increase students' literacy and hands-on skills on common quantitative methods in ecology and environmental sciences, including accessing and curating data, statistical inference, regression, data-based predictions (also known as machine learning), and visualizing the results. Students will be using public data sets from organismal to landscape scales, including spatial data sets from the Google Earth Engine platform. Example codes will be provided in both Python and R.#
&BIOEE 3690 | Chemical Ecology&
#Why are chilies so spicy? This course examines the chemical basis of interactions between species and is intended for students with a basic knowledge of chemistry and biology. Focuses on the ecology and chemistry of plants, animals, and microbes. Stresses chemical signals used in diverse ecosystems, using Darwinian natural selection as a framework. Topics include: plant defenses, microbial warfare, communication in marine organisms, and human pheromones.#
&BIOEE 4530 | Speciation: Genetics, Ecology, and Behavior&
#Advanced course in evolutionary biology focusing on the pattern and process of speciation and the nature of origin of behavioral, morphological, physiological and ecological traits that form the intrinsic barriers to gene exchange. Lecture topics include species concepts and definitions, the history of ideas about speciation, the biological basis of intrinsic barriers to gene exchange, current models for the origin of such barriers, genetic architecture of speciation, rates of speciation. Emphasis is on developing a rigorous conceptual framework for discussing speciation and on detailed analysis of a series of case histories.#
&BIOEE 4660 | Physiological Ecology, Lectures&
#Detailed survey of how physiological processes help organisms meet the challenges of their environment. Lectures explore physiological adaptation, thermal biology, respiration and oxygen transport, resource acquisition and allocation, water use and limitation, energetics and nutrition, hormones, stress physiology, and developmental physiology. Readings draw from the primary literature and textbooks.#
&BIOEE 4661 | Physiological Ecology, Laboratory&
#Detailed survey of the physiological approaches used in understanding the relationships between organisms and their environment. Laboratories apply physiological techniques to specific ecological problems and cover aspects of experimental design and computer-aided data analysis.#
&BIOEE 4700 | Herpetology, Lectures&
#Lectures cover various aspects of the biology of amphibians and reptiles, including evolution, zoogeography, ecology, behavior, and physiology.#
&BIOEE 4790 | Paleobiology&
#Surveys the major groups of invertebrate organisms and their evolutionary histories, and the theoretical and practical principles of paleontology, from biostratigraphy to macroevolution. Intended to fill out the biological backgrounds of Earth and atmospheric science students concerning the nature and significance of the fossil record for their respective studies, and the paleontological backgrounds of biology students interested in ecology and evolution.#
&BIOEE 4800 | Ecological Genetics&
#Ecological Genetics focuses on the application of population genetic concepts in ecological contexts, with emphases on measuring adaptation in natural populations, detecting the effects of population demography, and determining the genetic basis of quantitative traits. Illustrative examples will be drawn from the primary research literature to demonstrate experimental techniques and methods of data analysis on single-gene, multi-locus and genome-wide scales.#
&BIOEE 4940 | Special Topics in Ecology and Evolutionary Biology&
#The department offers "trial" courses or seminars under this number. Offerings vary by semester. The same course is not to be offered more than twice under this number. For 2022-2023 descriptions, please go to the department website.#
&BIOEE 4980 | Teaching Experience&
#Designed to give qualified undergraduate students teaching experience through actual involvement in planning and assisting in biology courses. This experience may include supervised participation in a discussion group, assisting in a biology laboratory, assisting in field biology, or tutoring.#
&BIOEE 6550 | Data Analysis and Visualization in Ecology and Environmental Science&
#Ecology and Environmental Science are running into a 'big data' era. The unprecedented data sources provide opportunities for novel scientific exploration and solutions to real-world problems, which, however, usually requires robust quantitative analysis and informative visualization. This course aims to increase students' literacy and hands-on skills on common quantitative methods in ecology and environmental sciences, including accessing and curating data, statistical inference, regression, data-based predictions (also known as machine learning), and visualizing the results. Students will be using public data sets from organismal to landscape scales, including spatial data sets from the Google Earth Engine platform. Example codes will be provided in both Python and R.#
&BIOEE 6602 | Graduate Field Course in Ecology&
#Designed to give graduate students experience in defining questions and designing field investigations. The course is based at the Archbold Biological Station in central Florida over spring break and during the following week. The class visits several ecosystems including sand pine scrub, cattle ranches, cypress swamps, and the Everglades.#
&BIOEE 6900 | Seminar in Ecology and Evolution of Infectious Diseases&
#Graduate-level discussion of the ecology, epidemiology, genetics, and evolution of infectious disease in animal and plant systems. Weekly discussion of research papers published in the primary scientific literature. Participation in discussion and presentation of at least one paper required for course credit.#
&BIOEE 7600 | Special Topics in Evolution and Ecology&
#Lectures and intensive study of special topics in the field of Ecology & Evolutionary Biology. Content varies each semester.#
&BIOEE 7640 | Plant-Insect Interactions Seminar&
#Group intensive study of current research in plant-insect interactions. Topics vary from semester to semester but include chemical defense, coevolution, insect community structure, population regulation, biocontrol, tritrophic interactions, and mutualism.#
&BIOEE 9990 | Ph.D. Dissertation Research&
#Dissertation research conducted by a Ph.D. student in the field of ecology and evolutionary biology with advice and consultation of a major professor who is a member of the field.#


$BIOG | Biology: General Courses$
&BIOG 1044 | Academic Support for BIOG 1440: Physiology&
#This course reviews material presented in BIOG 1440 and provides problem-solving strategies and additional practice with material. BIOG 1044 support is recommended for students who want to maximize their understanding of Comparative Physiology and enhance their learning skills. BIOG 1044 is not a substitute for BIOG 1440.#
&BIOG 1180 | Ethics in Life Sciences&
#Ethical issues invariably arise when conducting research in, and generally thinking about, the life sciences. How should human and animal cells be used and when? What harms, risks and benefits might be associated with advances being made in synthetic biology or in the genetic modification of organisms? How does our understanding of microbiome alter our notions of an individual or of a disease? Does the environment have value only insofar as it contributes to humans ends, or does it have value in itself? How much empirical evidence is sufficient before drawing a conclusion? Does what we learn in science change the nature of our ethical frameworks? This course considers these issues and others. In doing so, we'll examine some ethical theory and some recent scientific research in order to survey the scope of topics at the intersection of ethics and the life sciences.#
&BIOG 1200 | Biology Scholars Program First-year Seminar&
#This course is designed to help first-year biological sciences majors make the transition to Cornell's science courses, give exposure to career options in research and medicine, provide opportunities to meet and network with faculty, and to facilitate students' pursuit of research on campus.#
&BIOG 1250 | Biology Seminar&
#A first-year seminar that provides an opportunity for students to participate in a small group, interactive course with a biologist. Students will develop critical thinking skills by exploring topics in the biological sciences (review at least one scientific paper). Multiple topics and sections will be offered each semester.#
&BIOG 1440 | Introductory Biology: Comparative Physiology&
#An introductory physiology course intended for first-year and sophomore biological sciences majors and other students majoring in life sciences. The course integrates physiology from the cell to the organism with comparisons among animals, plants and microbes. Emphasis is on understanding of basic physiological concepts, stressing structure-function relationships and underlying physio-chemical mechanisms.#
&BIOG 1445 | Introduction to Comparative Anatomy and Physiology, Individualized Instruction&
#The course focuses on the understanding of how different biological organisms (animals, plants, microbes) perform common physiological functions.#
&BIOG 1500 | Investigative Biology Laboratory&
#Designed for biological sciences majors to provide lab experience with emphasis on processes of scientific investigations and to promote communication, literacy and collaboration in science. Students gain expertise in methods including instrumentation used by biologists to construct new knowledge. Lab topics include genetics, evolution, ecology, biochemistry, and molecular biology.#
&BIOG 2000 | Special Studies in Biology&
#Registration device for students who want to take only a portion of a regular biological sciences course-for example, only the lectures or only the laboratory in a course that includes both. Only students who have already had training equivalent to the portion of the regular course that is to be omitted may register in this manner. This course may not be used to fulfill college distribution requirements except by permission from the Office of Undergraduate Biology.#
&BIOG 2401 | Developing a Reflective Study Group Leader Practice II&
#Students will complete readings and view online media on teaching and learning, create and critique lesson plans, and participate in regular discussions with other SGLs. Each week SGLs will reflect on their group meetings through both writing and discussion, and review challenges and successes during trainings. The SGL position is a year-long commitment; members will enroll in BioG 2401 in the spring. Topics covered in BioG 2400 and 2401 include leading effective groups, cognitive taxonomy, motivation techniques, facilitating discussion, learning styles, growth mindset, metacognition, resilience, community building, and supporting students from diverse backgrounds.#
&BIOG 2990 | Introduction to Research Methods in Biology&
#Intended for students who are new to undergraduate research. Students enrolled in BIOG 2990 may be reading scientific literature, learning research techniques, or assisting with ongoing research. The faculty supervisor determines the work goals and the form of the final report. Any Cornell faculty member whose research field is biological in nature may serve as a supervisor for this course. Non-Cornell supervisors are not acceptable.#
&BIOG 3100 | Preparing HHMI-CURT Scholars for Research&
#This course is for students in the HHMI-Cornell Research Transfer (CURT) program, and will introduce HHMI-CURT Scholars to faculty research, include scholar presentations, and serve as a forum for HHMI-CURT Scholars to discuss potential difficulties or success in labs.#
&BIOG 4970 | Independent Study in Biology&
#This course is designed for a student to study a problem or topic not covered in a regular course or undertake tutorial study of an independent nature in an area of interest in Biology, under the supervision of a faculty member in any biology department that does not have its own Independent Study course, i.e., Animal Physiology, Ecology & Evolutionary Biology, Microbiology, Molecular Biology & Genetics, Neurobiology & Behavior. The student's academic advisor must approve the course for it to be used to satisfy a Biological Sciences concentration requirement. Students must register using the CALS Special Studies form available online.#
&BIOG 4980 | Teaching Experience&
#Designed to give qualified undergraduate students teaching experience through actual involvement in planning and assisting in biology courses. This experience may include supervised participation in a discussion group, assisting in a biology laboratory, assisting in field biology, or tutoring.#
&BIOG 4990 | Independent Undergraduate Research in Biology&
#For students with previous undergraduate experience conducting biological research at Cornell. Students enrolled for this credit should be doing independent work on their own project. Any Cornell faculty member whose research field is biological in nature may serve as supervisor for this course. Non-Cornell supervisors are not acceptable.#


$BIOMG | Molecular Biology and Genetics$
&BIOMG 1035 | Academic Support for BIOMG 1350: Cell and Developmental Biology&
#This course reviews material presented in BIOMG 1350 and provides problem-solving strategies and additional practice with material. BIOMG 1035 support is recommended for students who want to maximize their understanding of Cell and Developmental Biology and enhance their learning skills. BIOMG 1035 is not a substitute for BIOMG 1350.#
&BIOMG 1290 | Personal Genomics and Medicine: Why Should You Care About What's in Your Genes&
#Do you have allergies to milk or wheat? Curious about your family ancestry? Does a relative suffer from a genetic disease, and you wonder if you might also be at risk? How will medicine be impacted by DNA testing? How will your own future, your quality of life, your decisions regarding children be impacted? What are the ethical, legal, and social challenges we all face as this genetic technology becomes rapidly available to anyone with as little as $99 and a saliva sample? This course is not just for those interested in science, it is a topic we all need to have a basic understanding of to ensure we are prepared for what is rapidly becoming part of all of our futures. This course is suitable for life sciences majors.#
&BIOMG 1320 | Orientation Lectures in Molecular Biology and Genetics&
#Six professors discuss their research and promising new areas for research in the future.#
&BIOMG 1350 | Introductory Biology: Cell and Developmental Biology&
#The course introduces molecular mechanisms that underlie the organization, division, and growth of individual cells; how they organize during embryonic development to form functional tissues and organs in multicellular organisms; and how their misbehavior contributes to disease. Students seeking additional help with the material taught in BIOMG 1350 should consider the active learning supplemental class BIOMG 1035 (see course catalog for details). The learning outcomes below indicate the topics and skills that students should master upon completion of the course.#
&BIOMG 2800 | Lectures in Genetics and Genomics&
#General introduction to the fundamental principles of genetics in eukaryotes and bacteria. Topics include: gene transmission, linkage, recombination, structure, mutations, and manipulation, as well as analysis of genomes in individuals and populations.#
&BIOMG 2801 | Laboratory in Genetics and Genomics&
#General introduction to laboratory experimental genetics. Topics include gene transmission, linkage, recombination, gene structure, mutations, and manipulation.#
&BIOMG 3300 | Principles of Biochemistry, Individualized Instruction&
#Thirteen units that cover protein structure and function, enzymes, basic metabolic pathways, DNA, RNA, protein synthesis, and an introduction to recombinant DNA techniques. No formal lectures, auto-tutorial format.#
&BIOMG 3320 | Principles of Biochemistry: Molecular Biology&
#Comprehensive course in molecular biology that covers the structure and properties of DNA, DNA replication and repair, synthesis and processing of RNA and proteins, the regulation of gene expression, and the principles and applications of recombinant DNA technologies, genomics, and proteomics.#
&BIOMG 3340 | Computer Graphics and Molecular Biology&
#Visualization of complex biomolecules using computer graphics techniques. Group presentations on current topics in molecular biology.#
&BIOMG 3350 | Principles of Biochemistry: Proteins, Metabolism, and Molecular Biology&
#Comprehensive introduction to biologically important molecules and polymers. Topics include: protein structure and function, enzyme catalysis, metabolic regulatory pathways, DNA and RNA structure, DNA replication and repair, modern DNA technologies, gene expression, and protein synthesis.#
&BIOMG 4320 | Survey of Cell Biology&
#Survey of a wide array of topics focusing on the general properties of eukaryotic cells. Topics include methods used for studying cells, the structure and function of the major cellular organelles, and analyses of cellular processes such as mitosis, endocytosis, cell motility, secretion, cell-to-cell communication, gene expression, and oncogenesis. Some of the material is covered in greater depth in BIOMG 4370, BIOMG 4380, BIOMG 6360, and BIOMG 6390.#
&BIOMG 4400 | Laboratory in Biochemistry and Molecular Biology&
#Students in this course will carry out experiments in protein biochemistry and molecular biology in an engaging laboratory environment. The protein biochemistry projects include protein purification (salt fractionation, ion exchange chromatography, affinity chromatography, size exclusion chromatography, and immunoprecipitation), protein analysis (SDS PAGE, BN PAGE, immunoblotting, and activity assays), and determination of enzyme kinetic parameters (Vmax, KM, and kcat). The molecular biology projects include CRISPR-mediated genome editing, nucleic acid purifications (plasmid DNA and RNA), gene expression analysis (RT-PCR and splicing), agarose gel electrophoresis, restriction endonuclease digestion, PCR, DNA cloning, transformation, and DNA sequence analysis. The course is organized around interesting projects that illustrate how different techniques are uniquely suited to answer a scientific question.#
&BIOMG 4610 | Development and Evolution&
#This course explores the molecular and genetic pathways and mechanisms that regulate animal development, and how they are modified through evolution to result in the dazzling array of forms and functions seen in the animal kingdom. The recent and exciting combining of developmental biology with evolutionary perspectives has prompted rethinking of many biological concepts. We will explore these in detail by considering the results and implications of the latest "EvoDevo" research.#
&BIOMG 4980 | Teaching Experience&
#Designed to give qualified undergraduate students teaching experience through actual involvement in planning and assisting in biology courses. This experience may include supervised participation in a discussion group, assisting in a biology laboratory, assisting in field biology, or tutoring.#
&BIOMG 4981 | Teaching Experience in Principles of Biochemistry, Indv&
#BIOMG 4981 offers training and experience for undergraduate teaching assistants in BIOMG 3300 (Introductory Biochemistry: Individualized Instruction). Teaching assistants are required to complete a weekly written assignment, attend a weekly two-hour TA training meeting and to spend six hours per week in the Biochemistry Study Center answering student questions, grading written quizzes, and administering oral quizzes. Teaching Assistants are evaluated based on the quality of written work submitted, observations at the weekly meetings and Study Center shifts, as well as on the mid-term and end-of-semester course evaluations.#
&BIOMG 4982 | Teaching Leadership in Principles of Biochemistry, Indv&
#BIOMG 4982 gives students who have successfully served as a BIOMG 3300 Teaching Assistant (as part of BIOMG 4981) a second opportunity at teaching the class and the added privilege of assisting the course instructor in leading and mentoring the incoming teaching assistant group. In addition to the required leadership responsibilities, students in BIOMG 4982 are required to review the material on a weekly basis and to spend six hours per week in the Biochemistry Study Center. Teaching Leaders are evaluated based on observations made during their Study Center shifts, as well as on the mid-term and end-of-semester course evaluations.#
&BIOMG 6300 | Principles of Biochemistry, Individualized Instruction&
#Thirteen units that cover protein structure and function, enzymes, basic metabolic pathways, DNA, RNA, protein synthesis, and an introduction to recombinant DNA techniques. No formal lectures, auto-tutorial format.#
&BIOMG 6321 | Principles of Biochemistry: Molecular Biology&
#Comprehensive course in molecular biology that covers the structure and properties of DNA, DNA replication and repair, synthesis and processing of RNA and proteins, the regulation of gene expression, and the principles and applications of recombinant DNA technologies, genomics, and proteomics.#
&BIOMG 6350 | Principles of Biochemistry: Proteins, Metabolism, and Molecular Biology&
#Comprehensive introduction to biologically important molecules and polymers. Topics include: protein structure and function, enzyme catalysis, metabolic regulatory pathways, DNA and RNA structure, DNA replication and repair, modern DNA technologies, gene expression, and protein synthesis.#
&BIOMG 6360 | Functional Organization of Eukaryotic Cells&
#This course will cover the fundamental concepts and biochemical mechanisms that contribute to the functional organization of eukaryotic cells as well as key experimental approaches in cell and molecular biology. The students are also expected to present how the major discoveries in cell biology were made and critically evaluate recent literature on cell biology.#
&BIOMG 6390 | The Nucleus&
#Lectures on topics of eukaryotic genomics, chromatin structure, regulation of gene expression, RNA processing, micro-RNA regulation, the structure and movement of chromosomes, long range regulatory interactions, and nuclear export and import. Covers the structure and function of the nucleus at the molecular and cell biological levels.#
&BIOMG 6400 | Laboratory in Biochemistry and Molecular Biology&
#Students in this course will carry out experiments in protein biochemistry and molecular biology in an engaging laboratory environment. The protein biochemistry projects include protein purification (salt fractionation, ion exchange chromatography, affinity chromatography, size exclusion chromatography, and immunoprecipitation), protein analysis (SDS PAGE, BN PAGE, immunoblotting, and activity assays), and determination of enzyme kinetic parameters (Vmax, KM, and kcat). The molecular biology projects include CRISPR-mediated genome editing, nucleic acid purifications (plasmid DNA and RNA), gene expression analysis (RT-PCR and splicing), agarose gel electrophoresis, restriction endonuclease digestion, PCR, DNA cloning, transformation, and DNA sequence analysis. The course is organized around interesting projects that illustrate how different techniques are uniquely suited to answer a scientific question.#
&BIOMG 6610 | Development and Evolution&
#This course explores the molecular and genetic pathways and mechanisms that regulate animal development, and how they are modified through evolution to result in the dazzling array of forms and functions seen in the animal kingdom. The recent and exciting combining of developmental biology with evolutionary perspectives has prompted rethinking of many biological concepts. We will explore these in detail by considering the results and implications of the latest "EvoDevo" research.#
&BIOMG 6980 | Graduate Student Teaching Assistant Experience in Molecular Biology and Genetics&
#This course is designed for graduate students in Graduate Fields of Biochemistry, Molecular and Cell Biology (BMCB) and Genetics, Genomics, and Development (GGD) who will serve as teaching assistants (TA) in undergraduate courses offered in the Department of Molecular Biology and Genetics (MBG). BMCB and GGD teaching assistants will take this course concurrently with their first TA assignment. The goal of the course is to provide teaching assistants with pedagogical skills in active learning, assessing student learning, leading discussions, grading, and best teaching practices for TA'ing MBG courses. Students will discuss their teaching experiences with their peers and gain feedback on their teaching effectiveness. An initial class meeting will help prepare students for the first day of class and provide tips for working with a teaching team. Throughout the semester, semi-weekly milestone meetings will focus on issues pertaining to graduate TAs, such as balancing research with teaching, interacting with students and course instructor, and special circumstances that may arise throughout the semester. Students will be encouraged to meet with their course instructor to gain feedback and to share their experiences with members of the course.#
&BIOMG 7510 | Ethical Issues and Professional Responsibilities&
#Ethical issues in research and the professional responsibilities of scientists are discussed based on readings and occasional lectures. The topics are intended to cover the requirements for ethical training of graduate students on training grants and follow the recommendations of the Office of Research Integrity.#
&BIOMG 7810 | Critical Thinking in Genetics and Development&
#This course will combine didactic lectures with student-led presentations and critical analysis of key literature on topical issues in molecular biology and genetics.#
&BIOMG 7860 | Research Seminar in Genetics and Development&
#Each graduate student presents one seminar per year based on his or her thesis research. The student then meets with the thesis committee members for an evaluation of the presentation.#
&BIOMG 7941 | Preparing for the A-exam: Skills Development for Scientific Proposal Writing&
#This course will provide graduate students in the life sciences with training in advanced science writing skills, preparing written scientific arguments, and providing constructive review of written material. As part of the course, students will complete a draft of the written portion of the A exam and will receive feedback on this draft from their classmates, senior graduate students, and postdoctoral researchers in related fields.#
&BIOMG 8330 | Research Seminar in Biochemistry&
#Each student presents one seminar per year on his or her thesis research and then meets with instructors and thesis committee members for evaluation.#
&BIOMG 8370 | Foundations and Frontiers in Cellular and Molecular Biology – II&
#Introduction to concepts, historical perspectives and outstanding questions in selected topics through weekly lectures, discussions and analysis of research literature.#


$BIOMI | Microbiology$
&BIOMI 1100 | Locker Rooms, Kitchens and Bedrooms: The Microbiology of College Life&
#Microbial habitats are literally everywhere on a college campus – and college students interact with microorganisms daily. From the athlete locker room, to the kitchen, to the bathroom, to between the sheets, college students are exposed to a plethora of microorganisms that are benign, beneficial, and pathogenic. The goal of this course is for students to learn about microbiology and microbial ecology as it relates to them – in the college campus environment. Students will learn about viruses, bacteria, eukarotes and metazoans that cause common illnesses (i.e. gastroenteritis, influenza and STDs), the microbially-driven elemental cycling of alcohol production, and ecology of microorganism that spoil food. Students will take away a practical understanding of the microorganisms that they can apply to their own lives. This course is suitable for non-life sciences majors.#
&BIOMI 1400 | Antibiotics: Probing the Biology of Life and Death&
#Though antibiotic resistance puts millions of lives at peril from infectious diseases each year, antibiotics and other antimicrobials have played a critical role in helping scientists understand biological systems better. This class examines the biology of microbial life through the lens of antibiotics and other antimicrobials. This course is suitable for non-life sciences majors.#
&BIOMI 2100 | Genesis&
#This class will explore the current theories about the chemical origins of life on earth, and will then use these insights to discuss the search for life on other planets, inside the Solar system and outside. Topics will include origin of the Sun, the Big Bang, the formation of Earth, the origin of life, from the prebiotic synthesis of amino acids, nucleobases, and other building blocks of life, the evolution of primitive protocells, the earliest RNA-based catalysts, the evolution of protein synthesis machinery, and the origins of eukaryotic cells. We will conclude with strategies and progress in identifying life on other planets in our solar system and on planets orbiting other stars.#
&BIOMI 2600 | Microbiology of Human Contagious Diseases&
#This course provides an introduction to the microbiology of microbial diseases. The primary focus is on molecular mechanisms of pathogenesis, including detection of the host environment, binding of pathogenic microbes to host cell surfaces and their invasion of host cells and tissues, and the delivery and functions of microbial toxins. It will include host defenses and microbial countermeasures against these defenses. We will also study the evolution of pathogens and the co-evolution of their hosts.#
&BIOMI 2900 | General Microbiology Lectures&
#Comprehensive overview of the biology of microorganisms, with emphasis on bacteria. Topics include microbial cell structure and function, physiology, metabolism, genetics, diversity, and ecology. Also covers applied aspects of microbiology such as biotechnology, the role of microorganisms in environmental processes, and medical microbiology.#
&BIOMI 2911 | General Microbiology Laboratory&
#This class will introduce you to current concepts and laboratory techniques in microbiology. Our goal is to show you how scientists use experiments to learn about the microbes around us, with an emphasis on bacteria. This course complements the Microbiology lecture by providing students with hands-on investigations into the microbial world.#
&BIOMI 2950 | Biology of Infectious Disease: From Molecules to Ecosystems&
#A broad integration and overview of the origins, nature, and dynamics of infectious disease in humans, plants, and animals. An examination of the historical and contemporary concepts and impacts of infectious agents on hosts at multiple spatial and temporal scales and at different levels of biological organization. The ecology and evolution of pathogens, hosts, and vectors are also discussed. Consideration of newly emerging diseases in human, plant, and animal populations and the influence of human activities on global disease spread. Current and future issues and trends in disease monitoring and mitigtion will also be addressed.#
&BIOMI 2970 | Principles of Pharmaceutical Science&
#We often take over-the-counter and prescription medications to treat various acute and chronic conditions, but how does that pill in a bottle relieve symptoms? This course will allow students to appreciate the intersection of biology and chemistry driving the science behind successful therapeutics. Why does a drug work better for some people than others? Why is taking many medications with grapefruit juice ill-advised? Students will learn the fundamentals of drug action and timing using selected FDA-approved drugs as examples in these sessions. We will discuss various drugs naturally made by bacteria and how bacteria are used to produce recombinant biologics drugs. We will cover some of the clinical aspects of antibiotic prescribing and why antibiotic resistance is a significant concern in healthcare and strategies for mitigation. Students will also learn about various analytical and bioanalytical assays used to clear a manufactured drug lot for release, for monitoring drug concentrations in patients' blood, and about tests used to determine whether a certain drug is likely to successfully treat a condition or cause adverse effects (companion diagnostics.) The interactive lectures will allow students to better understand drugs marketed to consumers and gain familiarity with the terminology used in drug development and clinical application. Students will develop their critical thinking skills by exploring a drug of their choice in scientific literature and have an opportunity to practice their communication skills through open discussion of their findings.#
&BIOMI 3990 | Professional Skills for Host-Microbe Interactions Research&
#This course complements the Undergraduate Research Experience program coordinated by the Cornell Institute of Host-Microbe Interactions and Disease. The goal is to introduce students interested in research on host-microbe interactions to professional skills needed to successfully complete research projects and apply to graduate school. Course activities will address fundamental topics such as research ethics and science communication, as well as planning for graduate study, including preparing application materials and applying for opportunities.#
&BIOMI 4040 | Pathogenic Bacteriology&
#Course in medical microbiology, presenting the major groups of bacterial pathogens important to human and veterinary medicine. Emphasizes infection and disease pathogenesis. Topics include disease causality; interactions of host, pathogen, and environment, including immunity to bacteria; and principles of antimicrobial therapy and drug resistance. Recommended for those planning to attend medical school, graduate school, or veterinary medical school, or those just interested in how bacteria cause disease.  A companion seminar addresses the current and classic literature related to the pathophysiology of medically important bacterial pathogens on the cellular and molecular levels.#
&BIOMI 4200 | Core Concepts in Molecular Bacteriology&
#The goal of this course is to prepare students for advanced work in molecular bacteriology, with a special emphasis on experimental design. First year graduate students as well as senior undergraduates with an interest in understanding how bacterial cells work at the molecular level will gain the most from this course. We will cover basic molecular bacteriology and learn experimental approaches. A background in bacteriology or microbiology is not required, since we will review of fundamental concepts before digging deeper into these concepts using primary literature. Further, we will examine the foundational experiments that led to our current understanding of the bacterial world. We will also critically analyze recent primary literature in this field to advance our knowledge and will use this literature as a basis for generating new hypotheses. Students will also build a foundation in structural, genetic, and biochemical tools used in microbiology laboratories. Foundational knowledge and practical skills learned in this course will help prepare the student for advanced work in the bacteriology laboratory.#
&BIOMI 4300 | Computational Approaches for Microbial Systems&
#High-throughput sequencing has revolutionized and become common practice across the field of microbiology. This course will prepare students for analyzing large sequencing datasets through a meaningful biological lens. Via a combination of lectures, discussions of primary literature, and hands-on, data-driven computational labs, we will learn how to organize computational projects, work in the command line, perform cloud computing, and gather, interpret, and analyze amplicon and (meta)genomic data to advance our understanding of microbial systems. We will evaluate the distribution of microbial biodiversity and gene abundances and compare the taxonomic and genomic composition of microbial communities. This course is geared towards graduate students and upper-level undergraduate students across biology. We will focus on how to use software for biological analyses while touching on broader concepts of statistical algorithms. (Note: the specifics of statistical models will not be the focus.) No prior knowledge of coding is required as an introduction to coding and data science will be covered in the first unit of the course.#
&BIOMI 4980 | Teaching Experience&
#Designed to give qualified undergraduate students teaching experience through actual involvement in planning and assisting in biology courses. This experience may include supervised participation in a discussion group, assisting in a biology laboratory, assisting in field biology, or tutoring.#
&BIOMI 6200 | Core Concepts in Molecular Bacteriology&
#The goal of this course is to prepare students for advanced work in molecular bacteriology, with a special emphasis on experimental design. First year graduate students as well as senior undergraduates with an interest in understanding how bacterial cells work at the molecular level will gain the most from this course. We will cover bacterial growth and metabolism, cell structures, physiology, pathogenesis, and experimental approaches. A background in bacteriology or microbiology is not required, since we will begin each week with a review of fundamental concepts before digging deeper into these concepts using primary literature. Further, we will examine the foundational experiments that led to our current understanding of the bacterial world. We will then critically analyze recent primary literature in this field to advance our knowledge and will use this literature as a basis for generating new hypotheses. Students will also build a foundation in structural, genetic, and biochemical tools used in microbiology laboratories. Foundational knowledge and practical skills learned in this course will help prepare the student for advanced work in the bacteriology laboratory.#
&BIOMI 6300 | Computational Approaches for Microbial Systems&
#High-throughput sequencing has revolutionized and become common practice across the field of microbiology. This course will prepare students for analyzing large sequencing datasets through a meaningful biological lens. Via a combination of lectures, discussions of primary literature, and hands-on, data-driven computational labs, we will learn how to organize computational projects, work in the command line, perform cloud computing, and gather, interpret, and analyze amplicon, genomic, and shot-gun metagenomic data to advance our understanding of microbial systems. We will evaluate the distribution of microbial biodiversity and gene abundances and compare the taxonomic and genomic composition of microbial communities. This course is geared towards graduate students and upper-level undergraduate students across biology. We will focus on how to use software for biological analyses while touching on broader concepts of statistical algorithms. (Note: the specifics of statistical models will not be the focus.)#
&BIOMI 7990 | Microbiology Seminar&
#The microbiology seminar series hosts local, national, and international speakers for research seminars. Students in BioMi 7990 gain insight into current topics and cutting-edge methods in microbiology, and are provided with networking opportunities with established scientists, as well as opportunities to present their own seminars.#


$BIOMS | Biomedical Sciences$
&BIOMS 3160 | Cellular Physiology&
#A comprehensive course covering the general characteristics of eukaryotic cells; the structure, composition, and function of subcellular organelles; and the major signal transduction pathways regulating a variety of physiological cell activities. Among the main subjects covered are absorption and transport processes, mechanism of action of signaling molecules (hormones), the cell cycle and regulation of cell proliferation, cell-cell communication, extracellular matrix, stem cells, apoptosis, and carcinogenesis.#
&BIOMS 4040 | Pathogenic Bacteriology&
#Course in medical microbiology, presenting the major groups of bacterial pathogens important to human and veterinary medicine. Emphasizes infection and disease pathogenesis. Topics include disease causality; interactions of host, pathogen, and environment, including immunity to bacteria; and principles of antimicrobial therapy and drug resistance. Recommended for those planning to attend medical school, graduate school, or veterinary medical school, or those just interested in how bacteria cause disease.  A companion seminar addresses the current and classic literature related to the pathophysiology of medically important bacterial pathogens on the cellular and molecular levels.#
&BIOMS 4130 | Histology: The Biology of the Tissues&
#Provides students with a basis for understanding the microscopic, fine-structural, and functional organization of vertebrates (primarily mammals), as well as methods of analytic morphology at the cell and tissue levels. Emphasizes dynamic interrelations of structure, composition, and function in cells and tissues.#
&BIOMS 4140 | Principles of Pharmacology&
#Undergraduate course surveying system- and organ-related aspects of pharmacology. Topics include mechanisms of drug action; drug disposition; pharmacokinetics; autonomic pharmacology; pharmacology of inflammation, allergy and platelet function; and endocrine, cardiovascular, respiratory, gastrointestinal, and renal pharmacology. The course is designed for undergraduate life science majors, particularly those interested in medical or veterinary school.#
&BIOMS 4250 | Applied Immunology&
#Applied Immunology builds on knowledge of basic immunology. It picks up where  BIOMS 4150 left off and covers diseases due to an unbalanced immune system. Topics include tolerance, homeostasis and barrier immunology, allergy, autoimmunity, transplantation, AIDS, and tumor immunology. The course will demonstrate that the field of "applied" immunology is dynamic and continually evolving by demonstrating how new technologies and research findings are "applied" toward designing immune-based therapies. Students will learn how commonly research methods measure immune responses.#
&BIOMS 4340 | Cellular and Molecular Microbial Pathogenesis: The Host Pathogen Interplay&
#Understanding the disease state induced by infection with a microbial pathogen requires knowledge of both the infectious agent and the host. This course will integrate the immune response of the host to challenges from medically important pathogens, including viruses, parasites and bacteria, to provide a unified view of microbial pathogenesis. The lectures will integrate concepts from the disciplines of immunology, bacteriology, virology, and parasitology, to cover aspects of host cell biology and the innate and acquired immune responses of the host to infection. A range of medically relevant human and animal pathogens will be detailed, focusing on the host's response to commensalism versus disease, the mechanisms of host invasion, nutrient acquisition, and modulation of the host's immune response. The course will also discuss current disease interventions and the challenges facing antimicrobial therapy and vaccine development.#
&BIOMS 4980 | Undergraduate Supervised Teaching&
#Students assist in teaching a course appropriate to their previous training. Students meet with a discussion or laboratory section and regularly discuss objectives with the course instructor.#
&BIOMS 6250 | Applied Immunology&
#Applied Immunology builds on knowledge of basic immunology. It picks up where BIOMS 4150/BIOMS 6150 left off and covers diseases due to an unbalanced immune system. Topics include tolerance, homeostasis and barrier immunology, allergy, autoimmunity, transplantation, AIDS, and tumor immunology. The course will demonstrate that the field of "applied" immunology is dynamic and continually evolving by demonstrating how new technologies and research findings are "applied" toward designing immune-based therapies. Students will learn how commonly research methods measure immune responses.#
&BIOMS 6251 | Essential Immunology and Infectious Disease: Research Methods and Design II&
#This course, which is intended to follow BIOMS 6151, will teach students how to critically interpret immunology and infectious disease research. The course will use cutting edge papers to develop student's critical interpretation of immunology and infectious disease experiments.#
&BIOMS 6340 | Cellular and molecular microbial pathogenesis: The host pathogen interplay&
#Understanding the disease state induced by infection with a microbial pathogen requires knowledge of both the infectious agent and the host. This course will integrate the immune response of the host to challenges from medically important pathogens, including viruses, parasites and bacteria, to provide a unified view of microbial pathogenesis. The lectures will integrate concepts from the disciplines of immunology, bacteriology, virology, and parasitology, to cover aspects of host cell biology and the innate and acquired immune responses of the host to infection. A range of medically relevant human and animal pathogens will be detailed, focusing on the host's response to commensalism versus disease, the mechanisms of host invasion, nutrient acquisition, and modulation of the host's immune response. The course will also discuss current disease interventions and the challenges facing antimicrobial therapy and vaccine development.#
&BIOMS 7900 | Seminars in Stem Cell Research&
#This course is organized as work-in-progress presentations by faculty, post-docs, and students participating in stem cell research. Each student in the Cornell Training Program in Stem Cell Research presents one seminar per year based on their research. The student then meets with the thesis committee members for an evaluation of the presentation.#


$BIONB | Neurobiology & Behavior$
&BIONB 1100 | Natural History of the Magic Kingdom: Understanding Animal Behavior through Animated Films&
#Animals are frequently used to tell children's stories, especially in animated cinema. For the most part depictions of animals in classic films such as Lion King, Finding Nemo, or The Land Before Time are clearly not intended to depict an accurate natural history of their subjects. However, the ways in which movies get things wrong by having animals portray human roles opens an opportunity to explore the diversity of animal behavior. This course focuses on understanding the evolution, ecology, and natural history of diverse animals portrayed in films. It will cover a range of topics that apply generally to animated animal movies (e.g., Do animals use language?) as well as issues raised by specific movies (Does it make any sense for Scar to kill Mufasa in Lion King?). During this course students will engage with data and analyses used in the field of animal behavior, appreciate the diversity of experiences among animals, and consider our own biology and behavior in the light of the natural world.#
&BIONB 1220 | FWS: Special Topics in Neurobiology and Behavior&
#The First-Year Writing Seminar is about introducing concepts in neuroscience and behavior and writing extensively about them. Topics vary by section.#
&BIONB 2220 | Neurobiology and Behavior II: Introduction to Neuroscience&
#An introduction to neuroscience: the structure and function of the nervous system of humans and other animals. Topics include the cellular and molecular basis for cell signaling, the functions of neurons in communication and in decision making; neuroanatomy, neurochemistry, sensory systems, motor systems, neural development, learning and memory, and other complex brain functions. The course will emphasize how the nervous system is built during development, how it changes with experiences during life, how it functions in normal behavior, and how it is disrupted by injury and disease. Discussion sections will include a dissection of a preserved sheep brain.#
&BIONB 3215 | Gender and the Brain&
#Why are boys more likely than girls to be diagnosed with autism, and why are women more likely than men to be diagnosed with depression? Are there different "gay" and "straight" brains? And how does brain science interact with gender and sexuality in popular debate? Reading and discussing the original scientific papers and related critical texts, we will delve into the neuroscience of gender. In this course, we will delve into the neuroscience of gender difference. Reading the original scientific papers and related critical texts, we will ask whether we can find measurable physical differences in male and female brains, and what these differences might be. Do men and women solve spatial puzzles differently, as measured physiologically? Do nonhuman animals display sex-specific behaviors mediated by brain structure, and can we extrapolate these findings to human behavior? Why are boys three times more likely than girls to be diagnosed as autistic, and is there any connection between the predominantly male phenomenon of autism and other stereotypically male mental traits? Are there physical representations of sexual orientation in the brain, and how are these related to gender identity? And how are scientific studies represented and misrepresented in popular debate?#
&BIONB 3220 | Hormones and Behavior&
#Covers comparative and evolutionary approaches to the study of the relationship between peripheral hormones and neuroendocrine mechanisms in vertebrates, including humans, with sexual behavior, affiliative bonds and social grouping, parental behavior, aggression, mating systems, stress, learning and memory, and biological rhythms.#
&BIONB 3690 | Chemical Ecology&
#Why are chilies so spicy? This course examines the chemical basis of interactions between species and is intended for students with a basic knowledge of chemistry and biology. Focuses on the ecology and chemistry of plants, animals, and microbes. Stresses chemical signals used in diverse ecosystems, using Darwinian natural selection as a framework. Topics include: plant defenses, microbial warfare, communication in marine organisms, and human pheromones.#
&BIONB 4140 | Principles of Pharmacology&
#Undergraduate course surveying system- and organ-related aspects of pharmacology. Topics include mechanisms of drug action; drug disposition; pharmacokinetics; autonomic pharmacology; pharmacology of inflammation, allergy and platelet function; and endocrine, cardiovascular, respiratory, gastrointestinal, and renal pharmacology. The course is designed for undergraduate life science majors, particularly those interested in medical or veterinary school.#
&BIONB 4200 | Topics in Neurobiology and Behavior&
#Courses on selected topics in neurobiology and behavior; can include lecture and seminar courses.#
&BIONB 4220 | Modeling Behavioral Evolution&
#Intensive lecture and computer lab course on modeling strategies and techniques in the study of behavioral evolution. Population-genetic (including quantitative-genetic), static optimization, dynamic programming, and game-theoretic methods are emphasized. These approaches are illustrated by application to problems in optimal foraging, sexual selection, sex ratio evolution, animal communication, and the evolution of cooperation and conflict within animal social groups. Students learn to critically assess recent evolutionary theories of animal behavior, as well as to develop their own testable models for biological systems of interest or to extend preexisting models in novel directions. The Mathematica software program is used as a modeling tool in the accompanying computer lab.#
&BIONB 4300 | Experimental Molecular Neurobiology&
#Experiments include PCR, western blots, RNAi, antibody staining, optogenetics, calcium imaging of neurons and behavioral assays. Students will also construct their own epifluoresence microscope. Experiments emphasize how molecular techniques can be applied to studying neurobiological problems and will culminate in designing your own experiments. If you have additional questions please contact dld14@cornell.edu.#
&BIONB 4330 | Topics in Cognitive Science&
#A seminar series examining current and classical ideas in human sciences and the humanities.  Themes vary from semester to semester.#
&BIONB 4530 | Speciation: Genetics, Ecology, and Behavior&
#Advanced course in evolutionary biology focusing on the pattern and process of speciation and the nature of origin of behavioral, morphological, physiological and ecological traits that form the intrinsic barriers to gene exchange. Lecture topics include species concepts and definitions, the history of ideas about speciation, the biological basis of intrinsic barriers to gene exchange, current models for the origin of such barriers, genetic architecture of speciation, rates of speciation. Emphasis is on developing a rigorous conceptual framework for discussing speciation and on detailed analysis of a series of case histories.#
&BIONB 4740 | Neural Dynamics of Learning, Memory and Decision Making&
#This course examines the neural circuit dynamics that support learning, memory and flexible decision making. We will critically read and discuss classic and current papers in these subjects. Topics may include neural mechanisms of different types of learning, memory-guided behavior, spatial navigation, memory replay, neural oscillations, brain computation, etc. We will critically read and discuss classic and current papers in these subjects. Topics may include neural mechanisms of different types of learning, memory-guided behavior, spatial navigation, memory replay, neural oscillations, brain computation, etc. Topics will cover both fundamental and translational research in different animal models and humans.#
&BIONB 4910 | Principles of Neurophysiology&
#Laboratory-oriented course designed to teach the concepts and tools of cellular neurophysiology through hands-on experience with extracellular and intracellular electrophysiological techniques, and computer acquisition and analysis of laboratory results. Students explore signal transmission in the nervous system by examining the cellular basis of resting and action potentials, and synaptic transmission and optogenetic control of behavior and physiology. Lecture time is used to review nervous system physiology, introduce laboratory exercises, discuss lab results and primary research papers, and for presentation of additional experimental preparations and methods. Invertebrate preparations are used as model systems.#
&BIONB 4980 | Teaching Experience&
#Designed to give qualified undergraduate students teaching experience through actual involvement in planning and assisting in biology courses.  This experience may include supervised participation in a discussion group, assisting in a biology laboratory, assisting in field biology, or tutoring.#
&BIONB 5910 | Principles of Neurophysiology&
#Laboratory-oriented course designed to teach the concepts and tools of cellular neurophysiology through hands-on experience with extracellular and intracellular electrophysiological techniques, and computer acquisition and analysis of laboratory results. Students explore signal transmission in the nervous system by examining the cellular basis of resting and action potentials, and synaptic transmission. Lecture time is used to review nervous system physiology, introduce laboratory exercises, discuss lab results and primary research papers, and for presentation of additional experimental preparations and methods. Invertebrate preparations are used as model systems. Students must complete and additional semester-long project. The project includes exploration of experimental neuroscience questions not covered in the undergraduate laboratory class, novel, low cost instrumentation design, computational approaches to nervous system function and development of active learning activities. It will require a project proposal early in the semester, and a final project presentation and research journal style paper at the end of the semester.#
&BIONB 7201 | Research Design in the Study of Animal Social Behavior&
#A weekly journal club-style discussion. Graduate students may be expected to present a summary of their research or a summary of research in the literature related to their thesis once per year.#
&BIONB 7202 | Topics in Neural Basis of Behavior&
#A weekly journal club-style discussion. Graduate students may be expected to present a summary of their research or a summary of research in the literature related to their thesis once per year.#
&BIONB 7640 | Plant-Insect Interactions Seminar&
#Group intensive study of current research in plant-insect interactions. Topics vary from semester to semester but include chemical defense, coevolution, insect community structure, population regulation, biocontrol, tritrophic interactions, and mutualism.#


$BME | Biomedical Engineering$
&BME 2010 | Physiology of Human Health and Disease&
#Covers essentials of human physiology, with an overview of complementary mechanisms of homeostasis and disease pathogenesis. Topics presented in a modular format incorporating an overview of basic physiological mechanisms and key diseases of specific organ systems susceptible to alterations in that physiological mechanism. Topics include: filtration and renal function, electrophysiology and cardiac arrhythmia, neural transmission and muscular dystrophy, mineral balance and osteoporosis, and lipid transport and atherosclerosis. Course utilizes best pedagogical strategies including engaged learning practices, small group discussion, and lectures by clinicians working in these areas.#
&BME 2080 | Experiential Learning Seminar&
#This seminar focuses on building professional skills while activating curricular content within the context of experiential learning activities. Students will pursue individual and team based exercises, with reflective discussions. Students must complete both spring and fall seminars to receive credit for the course.#
&BME 2110 | Biomolecular Thermodynamics&
#This course serves as an introduction to thermodynamics and physical chemistry focused on the application to biomolecular systems. Topics include the role of entropy and free energy in determining biological reactions and processes such as enzymatic reactions or molecular interactions, protein folding/unfolding, single molecule mechanics, energy states, and equilibrium distribution of biomolecular and other systems.#
&BME 3020 | Molecular Principles of Biomedical Engineering&
#Genomic and proteomic thinking and tools have revolutionized the way scientists study biology and medicine. We are now beginning to understand the molecular level mechanisms that underlie normal and pathologic cellular functions. As a consequence, novel molecular level approaches provide the basis for better diagnostic and therapeutic strategies to effectively treat or prevent human diseases. This course aims to present a broad overview of molecular level techniques that are relevant in many aspects of biomedical engineering. We will discuss the underlying principles, how to interpret representative data, limitations of current approaches, and engineering challenges for the development of new and improved techniques.#
&BME 3081 | BME Clinical Immersion Program II&
#No description available.#
&BME 3110 | Cellular Systems Biology&
#The behaviors of cells are increasing appreciated to be governed by a system of regulatory pathways, which processes information often in a multivariate, dynamic and non-linear fashion. The ability to reduce this complexity to predictable models is useful for designing new cancer therapies and genetically engineering cellular "machines". The course will cover: (1) analysis of dynamic control processes in cell biology, from intracellular pathways to networks to multicellular systems; (2) principles of computational systems biology, including genomic, proteomic, and transcriptomic algorithms; and (3) principles of synthetic biology, including gene circuit design and modeling. Students will learn to solve problems using computationally implemented algorithms and models, involving statistical methods, differential equation systems, multivariate regression, and logic-based approaches. This course is designed for upper-level undergraduate and Master's students in the biomedical, biological and/or engineering sciences.#
&BME 3210 | Multiscale Biomaterial Analysis&
#The course in advanced biomaterials leads the class through the process of material design and characterization for their development as products in the medical device or pharmaceutical fields. Student teams will apply their fundamental knowledge of chemistry and biology to open-ended design challenges focused on biomaterial mechanics, processability, biocompatibility and federal regulatory requirements. Hands-on technical work in materials characterization will be combined with key knowledge of biomaterials to give the class an integrated understanding of biomaterials design and development. Specific topics to be covered are classes of biomaterials, methods of characterization, the interface of biomaterials and biology, the foreign body response, inflammation, wound healing, biofilms, sterilization methods, FDA-approval guidelines and EU-approval guidelines.#
&BME 3310 | Medical and Preclinical Imaging&
#This course teaches the fundamentals and applications of medical imaging techniques, including x-ray imaging and computed tomography, nuclear medicine, magnetic resonance imaging, ultrasound, and optical imaging. Through lecture and demonstration labs, the class provides a rigorous introduction to medical imaging, beginning with the basic physical principles of image formation on to image reconstruction and descriptions and demonstrations of the hardware used in clinical applications. Concepts covered include resolution, point-spread-functions, modulation transfer functions, signal-to-noise, multi-dimensional Fourier transformation, image filtering in spatial domain and the structure and function of the human visual system.#
&BME 3410 | Systems Mechanobiology&
#This course analyzes how mechanical forces affect biological responses across biological scales, including molecular, cellular, tissue, organ, and organism level. Theoretical and empirical foundations and engineering approaches to applying, quantifying, and elucidating mechanobiological mechanisms across each scale will be presented. Applications in human health and disease pathogenesis will be emphasized.#
&BME 4020 | Electrical and Chemical Physiology&
#Focuses on understanding how circulating agents and bioelectric activity comprises interorgan and central nervous system communication, and control of the human body. Additional emphasis includes examining medical devices involved in the treatment of human disease.#
&BME 4090 | Biomedical Engineering Design II&
#Substantial design experience based on the knowledge and skills acquired in earlier course work combined with the fundamental design theory articulated in BME 4080.#
&BME 4440 | Science Policy Bootcamp: Concept to Conclusion&
#Science Policy Bootcamp: Concept to Conclusion, is an interdisciplinary service-learning course where students will explore the trends that shape science and innovation policy, understand core science policy concepts and engage in active policymaking work. This three-credit course will comprise of a three-hour long session that will meet every week. The first hour of each session will be devoted to broadening student's perspective on science policy. The following two hours will be spent working in groups on the primary activity of the course - a science policy advocacy project that builds over the full semester. Working in small groups, students will identify a key science policy issue. Together, they will thoroughly research the issue and contact key stakeholders, formulate a detailed plan to address the issue, and unique to this course - implement their plan for solving the problem toward the end of the semester. Examples may include drafting legislation, commenting on Federal or State rulemaking procedures, launching public outreach campaigns, or raising press awareness of an issue. This aspect of the course will include both mentored work in developing the idea and advocacy plan, as well as activities to build the skills necessary to be an effective policy advocate. Examples of such activities include mock press interviews and lobbying visits. As a result of the final project - students will have the unique opportunity to address a bona fide policy issue and create a working solution.#
&BME 4640 | Orthopaedic Tissue Mechanics&
#Application of mechanics and materials principles to orthopaedic tissues. Physiology of bone, cartilage, ligament, and tendon and the relationship of these properties to their mechanical function. Mechanical behavior of skeletal tissues. Functional adaptation of these tissues to their mechanical environment. Tissue engineering of replacement structures.#
&BME 4900 | Independent Undergraduate Project in Biomedical Engineering&
#Research or projects by an individual or a small group of undergraduates.#
&BME 4901 | Honors Thesis&
#Intended for students pursuing the research honors program in BME. This course is the culmination of the program's honors project requirement. Students enrolled in the BME Honors program will prepare an honors thesis based on the subject matter of a BME 4900 project from the previous semester, under the supervision of their research mentor.#
&BME 4910 | Principles of Neurophysiology&
#Laboratory-oriented course designed to teach the concepts and tools of cellular neurophysiology through hands-on experience with extracellular and intracellular electrophysiological techniques, and computer acquisition and analysis of laboratory results. Students explore signal transmission in the nervous system by examining the cellular basis of resting and action potentials, and synaptic transmission and optogenetic control of behavior and physiology. Lecture time is used to review nervous system physiology, introduce laboratory exercises, discuss lab results and primary research papers, and for presentation of additional experimental preparations and methods. Invertebrate preparations are used as model systems.#
&BME 4970 | Undergraduate Teaching in Biomedical Engineering&
#The student assists in teaching a biomedical engineering course appropriate to their previous training. The student may meet with a discussion or laboratory section, prepare course materials, grade assignments, and regularly discuss objectives and techniques with the faculty member in charge of the course.#
&BME 5010 | BME MEng Professional Engagement Seminar&
#Students must attend and report on 10 self-selected seminars to fulfill the requirements of the course.#
&BME 5100 | Clinical Preceptorship for Biomedical Engineers&
#Preceptorship, is a well-known process in healthcare education and described as a short term relationship between a student as novice and an experienced health care professional, who provides individual attention to the student's learning needs within a clinical environment. The BME 5100 leverages this methodology and enable our students to experience the dynamics of a clinical environment, observe the routine practice of a clinician, identify potential needs, and through a formal process evaluate the merits and provide ideas on how to address these perceived needs. The instructor will educate the students about the clinical environment, dress and behavior code, interaction with hospital staff and patients, as well as monitor and manage each student-preceptor team. The instructor and other engineering faculty will also review the student's experiences and assist in any assignments the preceptor may have given to the student. The preceptor will guide the student with in depth knowledge of the related anatomy, physiology and pathology associated with his specialty. The preceptor will also provide the student the ability to participate and observe as well as generate weekly assignments. The sponsoring institution and the preceptors are very interested in the identified problems, the ideas resultant of the process, and how these ideas could be addressed by applying principles of engineering. The student will provide feedback in the form of a final report as well as an on-site poster presentation at the end of the academic year. The merited ideas will be placed in the pipeline for the sponsored design projects (BME 5910, BME 5920).#
&BME 5310 | Medical and Preclinical Imaging&
#No description available.#
&BME 5320 | Principles of Neurophysiology&
#Laboratory-oriented course designed to teach the concepts and tools of cellular neurophysiology through hands-on experience with extracellular and intracellular electrophysiological techniques, and computer acquisition and analysis of laboratory results. Students explore signal transmission in the nervous system by examining the cellular basis of resting and action potentials, and synaptic transmission. Lecture time is used to review nervous system physiology, introduce laboratory exercises, discuss lab results and primary research papers, and for presentation of additional experimental preparations and methods. Invertebrate preparations are used as model systems. Students must complete and additional semester-long project. The project includes exploration of experimental neuroscience questions not covered in the undergraduate laboratory class, novel, low cost instrumentation design, computational approaches to nervous system function and development of active learning activities. It will require a project proposal early in the semester, and a final project presentation and research journal style paper at the end of the semester.#
&BME 5610 | Advanced Cellular Systems Biology&
#No description available.#
&BME 5620 | Biomineralization: The Formation and Properties of Inorganic Biomaterials&
#This course will examine the wide variety of mineralized materials made by biological organisms including mollusk shells, sea urchins, mammalian bone and teeth, siliaceous sponges and diatoms, and magnetotactic bacteria. The focus will be on the molecular and biological mechanisms that lead to the formation of these materials as well as their unique mechanical, optical and optical properties.#
&BME 5780 | Computer Analysis of Biomed Images&
#Powerful imaging modalities with attending computer image processing methods are evolving for the evaluation of health and the detection of disease. This course focuses on the quantitative analysis of such images and Computer Aided Diagnosis (CAD), i.e., the automatic identification and classification of abnormalities by the computer.#
&BME 5830 | Cell-Biomaterials Interactions&
#Biological principles underlying biomaterial design and cellular adhesive behavior, incorporating biomechanical analysis across the molecular, cellular and tissue length scales. We will take an in-depth look at design considerations and biomaterials analysis, incorporating reading from the primary literature as well as the text.#
&BME 5850 | Current Practice in Tissue Engineering&
#Covers fundamental biological principles and engineering concepts underlying the field of tissue engineering and describes specific strategies to engineer tissues for clinical use along with examples.#
&BME 5910 | Preliminary Study for Design Project&
#Design and economic evaluation of a biomedical engineering device or therapeutic strategy. Team projects are encouraged.#
&BME 5911 | Industrial Projects: Preliminary Study for Design Project&
#The first of two required design courses for the biomedical engineering Master of Engineering program. Teams starting a new project will focus on the identification and ideation phases of a design process. The teams will identify and/or verify unmet healthcare need(s), roughly explore potential concepts, devise the requirements of the technology to be engineered, and implement the first interaction of a conceptual prototype.#
&BME 5920 | Performance of Design Project&
#Once a proposal for the project has been approved by the Sponsor or Faculty member, the student must ("deliver on time and under budget") produce a tangible work product. Scheduling activities, ordering supplies, assembling, testing the device or procedure, and documenting the work and outcomes are the key expectation for the project.#
&BME 5921 | Industrial Projects: Performance of Design Project&
#This course is the execution phase of your design project. From BME 5500 and BME 5911 your team should have applied Yock's Biodesign process and devised the product requirements of the solution to be engineered during this semester. The objective of the course is the engineering of a fully functional proof-of-concept prototype (product) based on the previously defined and proposed set of requirements.#
&BME 5930 | Independent Design Project&
#Graduate-level, non-thesis research or studies on special projects in biomedical engineering.#
&BME 5940 | Biomedical Engineering Internship&
#Off-campus internship with industry in which a student gains knowledge and experience in the field of biomedical engineering.#
&BME 5950 | Special Topics in Biomedical Engineering&
#Study of topics in biomedical engineering that are more specialized or different from other courses. Special topics depend on staff and student interests.#
&BME 6230 | Cancer and Immuno-Engineering&
#Cancer and immunology had been investigated separately for a long time. Recently, they have become connected to each other as we appreciated the roles of immunity in cancer formation, progression, and treatment. As cancer immunotherapies are emerging, understanding of cancer and immunity in deeper manners as a separate topic is required, but also, the abilities to combine both topics in physiologically relevant contexts and relevant knowledge in bioengineering approaches (biomaterials, drug delivery systems, tissue engineering) are needed to be able to solve the multifactorial disease. In this course, we will discuss the topics in Cancer Engineering (module 1); Immune Engineering (module 2); and Cancer Immunotherapy (module 3). In each module, critical biological concepts will be discussed, followed by engineering perspectives, and updated case studies from experts in the cancer and immune-engineering field.#
&BME 6260 | Optical Microscopy and Fluorescence Methods for Research&
#BME 6260 covers the fundamental optics, photophysics, spectroscopy and instrumentation required for understanding how to apply all modes of modern fluorescence microscopy, bioanalytical methods and single molecule fluorescence techniques for biomedical research and diagnostics.#
&BME 6320 | Modern Biomedical Microscopy&
#Current trends in the development of novel techniques for imaging cells and tissues. This course will emphasize both fundamentals as well as emerging applications to discovery-based biological studies or clinical disease diagnosis/management.#
&BME 6330 | Optical Tools for Studying Living Systems&
#Light is an ideal way to interrogate physiology because it is relatively non-invasive yet versatile. This course will cover optical methods used in the study of cells and in vivo animal imaging including twophoton microscopy, super-resolution microscopy, optogenetics, the use of indicators and labels, calcium and voltage-sensitive indicator imaging, and bioluminescence. These methods will be studied from an optical, technical perspective as well as in the context of biology and physiology studies. Students are expected to have a basic understanding of imaging as well as physiology. Some experience with Matlab or any programming language will be helpful.#
&BME 6501 | Natural Engineering: Developmental Biology Paradigms for Regenerative Medicine&
#This course is in two modules. The first module (1 credit) identifies fundamental biophysical mechanisms and systems engineering of early embryonic development (cleavage, gastrulation) and axis patterning. The second module (2 credits) extends these fundamentals to fetal maturation of several major organ systems, including lung, heart, vascular, and bone from an engineer's perspective (evolutionary conservation, major signaling pathways involved, etc). We further identify relationships between developmental biology and postnatal diseases, as well as explore developmental biology-based approaches for regenerative medicine (directed stem cell differentiation, mechanical conditioning, matrix based differentiation, etc.). Material is drawn largely from primary literature. Students have regular manuscript reviews, two midterms, and a final project analyzing the natural engineering of a different organ system.#
&BME 7020 | Biomedical Engineering Research Seminar&
#Designed to train graduate students in public presentation of scientific data. Students in their third year and beyond are required to give an annual seminar on their research; all students are required to attend the seminars and to provide constructive feedback to others on the quality of their presentation and data.#
&BME 7030 | Graduate Student Teaching Experience&
#Guided individual experience in laboratory instruction and/or lectures/recitation instruction. Provides a preparatory teaching experience for graduate students considering an academic career.#
&BME 7130 | Core Concepts in Disease&
#Most diseases emerge due to a relative small number of biological effects, including mechanisms like infection, inflammation, neoplasia, genetic mutation, protein misfolding, and metabolic disregulation. Students learn about disease-state biology by focusing on these broad disease pathways. The course consists of several modules, each focused on one broad class of disease mechanism, and includes both a discussion of the underlying biology of the disease pathway as well as examples of specific diseases that involve those mechanisms. This course complements the training in fundamental normal-state biology students are already receiving by providing a mechanism-centered view of disease development.#
&BME 7900 | Biomedical Engineering Graduate Colloquium&
#Research-based seminars. May meet with other seminar series as appropriate.#


$BSOC | Biology & Society$
&BSOC 2061 | Ethics and the Environment&
#Politicians, scientists, and citizens worldwide face many environmental issues today, but they are neither simple nor straightforward. Moreover, there are many ways to understand how we have, do, and could value the environment from animal rights and wise use to deep ecology and ecofeminism. This class acquaints students with some of the challenging moral issues that arise in the context of environmental management and policy-making, both in the past and the present. Environmental concerns also highlight important economic, epistemological, legal, political, and social issues in assessing our moral obligations to nature as well as other humans. This course examines various perspectives expressed in both contemporary and historical debates over environmental ethics by exploring four central questions: What is nature? Who counts in environmental ethics? How do we know nature? Whose nature?#
&BSOC 2201 | Society and Natural Resources&
#The actions of people are crucial to environmental well-being. This course addresses the interrelationships between social phenomena and the natural (i.e., biophysical) environment. It is intended to (1) increase student awareness of these interconnections in their everyday lives; (2) introduce students to a variety of social science perspectives, including sociology, economics, psychology, and political science, that help us make sense of these connections; (3) identify the contributions of each of these perspectives to our understanding of environmental problems; and (4) discuss how natural resource management and environmental policy reflect these perspectives.#
&BSOC 2350 | Literature and Medicine&
#How does literary language depict the experience of physical suffering? Can a poem or a novel palliate pain, illness, even the possibility of death? From darkly comic narratives of black plague to the rise and fall of hysteria to depictions of the AIDS crisis, this course examines literature centered on medical practices from the early modern period through the twentieth century. Why have medical practices changed, and how do writers address their political, social, and ideological implications? Readings will include a broad range of genres, including poetry (Dickinson, Whitman, Keats), fiction (McEwan, Chekhov, Gilman, Kafka, Camus), theater (Kushner), nonfiction prose (Woolf, Freud), and critical theory (Foucault, Scarry, Canguilhem, Sontag).#
&BSOC 2468 | Medicine, Culture, and Society&
#Medicine has become the language and practice through which we address a broad range of both individual and societal complaints. Interest in this medicalization of life may be one of the reasons that medical anthropology is currently the fastest-growing subfield in anthropology. This course encourages students to examine concepts of disease, suffering, health, and well-being in their immediate experience and beyond. In the process, students will gain a working knowledge of ecological, critical, phenomenological, and applied approaches used by medical anthropologists. We will investigate what is involved in becoming a doctor, the sociality of medicines, controversies over new medical technologies, and the politics of medical knowledge. The universality of biomedicine, or hospital medicine, will not be taken for granted, but rather we will examine the plurality generated by the various political, economic, social, and ethical demands under which biomedicine has developed in different places and at different times. In addition, biomedical healing and expertise will be viewed in relation to other kinds of healing and expertise. Our readings will address medicine in North America as well as other parts of the world. In class, our discussions will return regularly to consider the broad diversity of kinds of medicine throughout the world, as well as the specific historical and local contexts of biomedicine.#
&BSOC 2581 | Environmental History&
#This lecture course serves as an introduction to the historical study of humanity's interrelationship with the natural world. Environmental history is a quickly evolving field, taking on increasing importance as the environment itself becomes increasingly important in world affairs. During this semester, we'll examine the sometimes unexpected ways in which "natural" forces have shaped human history (the role of germs, for instance, in the colonization of North America); the ways in which human beings have shaped the natural world (through agriculture, urbanization, and industrialization, as well as the formation of things like wildlife preserves); and the ways in which cultural, scientific, political, and philosophical attitudes toward the environment have changed over time. This is designed as an intensely interdisciplinary course: we'll view history through the lenses of ecology, literature, art, film, law, anthropology, and geography. Our focus will be on the United States, but, just as environmental pollutants cross borders, so too will this class, especially toward the end, when we attempt to put U.S. environmental history into a geopolitical context. This course is meant to be open to all, including non-majors and first-year students.#
&BSOC 3011 | Life Sciences and Society&
#Biology and biotechnology are major influences on modern life. In addition, socio-political and historical conditions have shaped biological research and its applications in medicine, agriculture, environmental science, etc. Life science research is itself a social process involving complex human dynamics, different kinds of work and an array of social and natural systems. The course aims to introduce students to critical science and technology studies (S&TS) perspectives on the knowledge and practices of life sciences. The course is designed to prepare students for more advanced courses in the Biology & Society and S&TS majors, but students who do not plan to take further courses in those subjects can get critical insight into biology's profound role in both science and society.#
&BSOC 3235 | Bioarchaeology&
#Bioarchaeology is the study of human remains from archaeological sites. Like forensic scientists at the scene of the crime, bioarchaeologists search for clues embedded in human bone and mummified tissues to reconstruct how ancient peoples lived and died. As a dynamic living system, the human skeleton responds not only to hormones that govern human development but also to physiological stress brought on by disease, malnutrition, and trauma. The human body is also an artifact molded by cultural understandings of gender, prestige, self-expression, and violence. In this course, students will learn the scientific techniques for estimating skeletal age and sex, diagnosing pathology, and reconstructing diet and migration patterns. This course emphasizes the critical integration of biological and cultural evidence for understanding past individuals and societies.#
&BSOC 3751 | Independent Study&
#Projects under the direction of a Biology and Society faculty member are encouraged as part of the program of study within the student's concentration area. Applications for research projects are accepted by individual faculty members. Students may enroll for 1 to 4 credits in BSOC 3751 Independent Study with written permission of the faculty supervisor and may elect either the letter grade or the S-U option. Students may elect to do an independent study project as an alternative to, or in advance of, an honors project. Information on faculty research, scholarly activities, and undergraduate opportunities are available in the Biology and Society Office, 303 Morrill Hall. Independent study credits may not be used in completion of the major requirements.#
&BSOC 4412 | Conceptions of the Body in Medicine and Healing&
#The working of the human body is a universal phenomenon, yet different medical traditions have vastly different conceptions of what a body is. How can something so intimate and tangible like the body be understood so contrastingly in medicine across the world? With examples from classical Greek and ancient Chinese medicine to contemporary practices in biomedicine, Ayurveda, Unani and others, the course questions the everyday, taken for granted assumptions like the distinction between mind and the body, or what counts as a healthy body. It then explores how these multiple perceptions of the body in medicine are often culturally informed and are deeply linked with experiences of personhood and identity.#
&BSOC 4682 | Medicine and Healing in Africa&
#Therapeutic knowledge and practice in Africa have changed dynamically over the past century. Yet, questions about healing continue to be questions about the intimate ways that power works on bodies. Accounts of healing and medicine on the continent describe ongoing struggles over what counts as knowledge and who has the authority to intervene in social and physical threats. This class will discuss the expansion of biomedicine in Africa, the continuities and changes embodied in traditional medicine, and the shifting relationship between medicine, science and law. Our readings with trace how colonialism, post-independence nationalism, international development, environmental change and globalization have shaped the experience of illness, debility and misfortune today, as well as the possibilities for life, the context of care, and the meaning of death.#
&BSOC 4703 | The Glitch: Errors, Disability, and the Edges of Digital Media&
#A "glitch" is when something goes "wrong" in digital media—sometimes, however, it is precisely when something "fails" that can tell us about the structures and forces that underlie that media. In this course we'll be exploring a wide variety of examples of how media creators, artists, hackers, game developers, Deaf and disability activists, and other marginalized groups from across the world (with a particular focus on Japan) have used "glitches" to tell us something new about the digital, looking at works ranging from electronic literature to online horror stories to experimental video games and installation art.#
&BSOC 4992 | Honors Project II&
#Students must register for the 4 credits each semester (BSOC 4991-BSOC 4992) for a total of 8 credits. After the first semester, students receive a letter grade of "R"; a letter grade for both semesters is submitted at the end of the second semester whether or not the student completes a thesis or is recommended for honors. Minimally, an honors thesis outline and bibliography should be completed during the first semester. In consultation with the advisors, the director of undergraduate studies will evaluate whether the student should continue working on an honors project. Students should note that these courses are to be taken in addition to those courses that meet the regular major requirements. If students do not complete the second semester of the honors project, they must change the first semester to independent  study to clear the "R" and receive a grade. Otherwise, the "R" will remain on their record and prevent them from graduating.#
&BSOC 6703 | The Glitch: Errors, Disability, and the Edges of Digital Media&
#A "glitch" is when something goes "wrong" in digital media—sometimes, however, it is precisely when something "fails" that can tell us about the structures and forces that underlie that media. In this course we'll be exploring a wide variety of examples of how media creators, artists, hackers, game developers, Deaf and disability activists, and other marginalized groups from across the world (with a particular focus on Japan) have used "glitches" to tell us something new about the digital, looking at works ranging from electronic literature to online horror stories to experimental video games and installation art.#


$BTRY | Biometry & Statistics$
&BTRY 3020 | Statistics II&
#Applies linear statistical methods to quantitative problems addressed in biological and environmental research. Methods include linear regression, inference, model assumption evaluation, the likelihood approach, matrix formulation, generalized linear models, single-factor and multifactor analysis of variance (ANOVA), and a brief foray into nonlinear modeling. Carries out applied analysis in a statistical computing environment.#
&BTRY 3080 | Probability Models and Inference&
#This course provides an introduction to probability and parametric inference. Topics include: random variables, standard distributions, the law of large numbers, the central limit theorem, likelihood-based estimation, the method of moments, sampling distributions and confidence intervals.#
&BTRY 4090 | Theory of Statistics&
#Introduction to classical theory of parametric statistical inference that builds on the material covered in BTRY 3080. Topics include: sampling distributions, principles of data reduction, likelihood, parameter estimation, hypothesis testing, interval estimation, and basic asymptotic theory.#
&BTRY 4100 | Multivariate Analysis&
#This course is on the basics of multivariate statistical analysis. The focus ison the applied side, and the students will learn by examples of multiple real-life datasets. Studentswill learn to visualize the datasets and conduct simple statistical analysis using linear/nonlinearmethods. We will also cover web-scraping and data cleaning.#
&BTRY 4970 | Undergraduate Individual Study in Biometry and Statistics&
#Consists of individual tutorial study selected by the faculty. Because topics usually change from year to year, this course may be repeated for credit.#
&BTRY 4980 | Undergraduate Supervised Teaching&
#Students assist in teaching a course appropriate to their previous training. Students meet with a discussion or laboratory section and regularly discuss objectives with the course instructor.#
&BTRY 4990 | Undergraduate Research&
#Permits outstanding undergraduates to carry out independent study of suitable problems under appropriate supervision. Students cannot receive both pay and credit for the same hours of work.#
&BTRY 5020 | Statistics II&
#Applies linear statistical methods to quantitative problems addressed in biological and environmental research. Methods include linear regression, inference, model assumption evaluation, the likelihood approach, matrix formulation, generalized linear models, single-factor and multifactor analysis of variance (ANOVA), and a brief foray into nonlinear modeling. Carries out applied analysis in a statistical computing environment.#
&BTRY 5090 | Theory of Statistics&
#Introduction to classical theory of parametric statistical inference that builds on the material covered in BTRY 3080. Topics include sampling distributions, principles of data reduction, likelihood, parameter estimation, hypothesis testing, interval estimation, and basic asymptotic theory.#
&BTRY 6020 | Statistical Methods II&
#Continuation of BTRY 6010. Emphasizes the use of multiple regression analysis, analysis of variance, and related techniques to analyze data in a variety of situations. Topics include an introduction to data collection techniques; least squares estimation; multiple regression; model selection techniques; detection of influential points, goodness-of-fit criteria; principles of experimental design; analysis of variance for a number of designs, including multi-way factorial, nested, and split plot designs; comparing two or more regression lines; and analysis of covariance. Emphasizes appropriate design of studies before data collection, and the appropriate application and interpretation of statistical techniques. Practical applications are implemented using a modern, widely available statistical package.#
&BTRY 6970 | Individual Graduate Study in Biometry and Statistics&
#Individual tutorial study selected by the faculty. Because topics usually change from year to year, this course may be repeated for credit.#
&BTRY 7900 | Graduate-Level Dissertation Research&
#Research at the Ph.D. level.#
&BTRY 7980 | Graduate Supervised Teaching&
#Students assist in teaching a course appropriate to their previous training. Students meet with a discussion section, prepare course materials, and assist in grading. Credit hours are determined in consultation with the instructor, depending on the level of teaching and the quality of work expected.#
&BTRY 8900 | Master's Level Thesis Research&
#Research at the M.S. level.#
&BTRY 9900 | Doctoral-Level Dissertation Research&
#Thesis research for Ph.D. candidates after "A" exam has been passed.#


$BURM | Burmese$
&BURM 1100 | Elements of Burmese Language and Culture&
#This course will introduce basic Burmese language and elements of Burmese culture to anyone who would like to learn about the country.#
&BURM 1122 | Elementary Burmese (Myanmar) II&
#This course focuses on building up confidence in speaking and understanding spoken Burmese at the beginner level. Emphasis is put on language you will need if you visit the country, and significant practical skills are learned along with essential information on some customs and traditions of Burmese culture. Some of the assignments are completed online using interactive video and audio materials.#
&BURM 2202 | Intermediate Burmese (Myanmar) II&
#This course continues instruction of intermediate Burmese. It will focus on improving oral expression, reading and interpretation of written texts, and further development of listening skills using language learning materials based on authentic audio-video clips. Some of the assignments are completed online using interactive video and audio materials.#
&BURM 3302 | Advanced Burmese (Myanmar) II&
#All materials used in the course are authentic Burmese stories, current event reports, radio plays, etc. The particular materials used in any given year may vary depending on the proficiency level of the students. For students who are involved in Burma/Myanmar related research, their projects may also become part of the course.#
&BURM 3310 | Advanced Readings in Burmese (Myanmar) II&
#This course will further advance the student's reading skills and, if needed, writing as well. Burmese texts of advanced-level complexity will be read, analyzed, and translated to English. A certain amount of discussion in Burmese is also part of the course, but the primary objective is to learn to read and understand the typical texts that appear on websites about current events, cultural trends, news from around the world, as well as short literary works by contemporary authors. Heritage speakers of Burmese as well as students who are learning Burmese as a foreign language are welcome. Reading materials are selected depending on the needs and interests of the students and differ from year to year.#


$CAPS | China & Asia Pacific Studies$
&CAPS 1622 | From Samurai to Superpower: Japan in World History II&
#In 1868, samurai revolutionaries and their allies seized the reins of power and established a new capital they called Tokyo. Against all odds, this fragile regime survived and made Tokyo a center of power that would transform both Japan and the world. This survey of Japanese history explores the rise and fall of Japan as a modern imperial power; its foreign relations; its economic and scientific development from "feudalism" to futuristic technologies; and Japan's many modern revolutions, from the rule of the samurai to Westernization and democracy, from democratic collapse to fascism and World War II, and from Japan's postwar rebirth to the present. We will examine not only big events but also everyday life, including gender and sexuality, family and schools, and art and popular culture.#
&CAPS 1740 | Imperial China&
#This course explores the history of imperial China between the 3rd century b.c.e. and the 16th century c.e. with a focus on the following questions: How did imperial Chinese states go about politically unifying diverse peoples over vast spaces? How did imperial Chinese approaches to governance and to relations with the outer world compare with strategies employed by other historical empires? How did those approaches change over time? How did major socio-cultural formations — including literary canons; religious and familial lineages; marketing networks; and popular book and theatrical cultures — grow and take root, and what were the broader ramifications of those developments? How did such basic configurations of human difference as Chinese (civilized)-barbarian identity, high-low status, and male-female gender operate and change over time?#
&CAPS 2232 | Introduction to China: Getting Rich in Modern China&
#People outside China often talk about "China's rise," the changes in world economics and politics that come from the increase of the economic power of the People's Republic. From a domestic perspective, though, China's rise represents a promise to regular people that they will lead richer lives, both literally and figuratively. This course will examine the nature and history of that promise as it is experienced through literature, film, and other cultural texts. Why and how do PRC citizens want to get rich, and what happens when they don't? How does economic class shape identity in contemporary China? Can parts of the population be happy outside of the pursuit of material wealth?#
&CAPS 2435 | Global Maoism: History and Present&
#Maoism and Chinese Communism are not history after Mao's death in 1976. In China, Maoism holds the key to the enduring success of the Chinese Communist Party (CCP), one of the most remarkable organizations of the 20th and 21st centuries that has survived the collapse of communism in Europe and the USSR. With the beneficial transformation brought by capitalism and globalization in China, the end of the Cold War and the narrative of the "end of history" cannot explain the resurgence of Maoism.#
&CAPS 2575 | Tyranny and Dignity: Chinese Women from the Cultural Revolution to the White Paper Revolution&
#This course focuses on the human condition of Chinese women after 1949. In the name of the Women's liberation movement since the early 1900s, do Chinese women eventually hold up the half sky? From the cradle to the grave, what was most challenging in women's life? How did political, economic, and cultural forces frame women's professional careers and private life? No judgments nor imaginations. Using multi-media, such as Chinese independent documentary films, music, and photographs, students will discover the hidden stories behind the mainstream narratives. Workshops with film directors, pop music singers, and photographers offer students an unusual way of accessing all backstage field experiences.#
&CAPS 3857 | American Foreign Policy&
#This course is dedicated to surveying and critically evaluating the theoretical models and decisions that seek to explain American foreign policy with an emphasis on the post-WWII period. We will cover the different foreign policy decision-making models and prominent issues in foreign policy such as grand strategy, Congress, the presidency, and public support.#
&CAPS 3967 | What is China?&
#China is often thought of as being isolated from the outside world. It is imagined as existing in historic seclusion, and, following the establishment of the People's Republic, as pursuing a path of autarky. Such separation has then only been somewhat modified by the set of economic reforms that Deng Xiaoping first instituted in the late 1970s. In this lecture we will seek to turn such conventional wisdom on its head through examining "what China is" via a consideration of transnational currents within the country's development. However, the course's primary focus will not be upon the past, but rather the present and attempting to determine just where the point of intersection between China and the rest of the world is. Coming to terms with such an issue will provide those who enroll in the class with a deeper, more nuanced, understanding of China's rise and this trend's implications for the rest of the world. We will accomplish this task through a combination of surveying the existing literature on China and transnational politics, and considering new theoretical perspectives on both.#
&CAPS 4001 | China in Transition&
#This seminar, using faculty-directed research projects, is intended to survey China's transformation through revolution and reform since 1949, and to examine major issues under the themes of modernity and sustainability in the reform era.#
&CAPS 4002 | Chinese Perspectives on International and Global Affairs&
#This course, offered by faculty members of Peking University's School of International Studies, provides Chinese perspectives on contemporary China's international relations.#
&CAPS 4010 | Honors Thesis Tutorial I&
#Honors students conduct research to prepare a thesis on a topic of their own choosing under the direction of a faculty member. The application must be successfully submitted and an Honors Committee formed by the end of applicant's junior year in order for the student to be an honors candidate. Permission to enroll in CAPS 4020 is contingent upon the advisor's judgment of the viability of the student's honors thesis by the end of the semester.#
&CAPS 4020 | Honors Thesis Tutorial II&
#Honors students complete research and finish a thesis on a topic of their own choosing under the direction of a faculty member.#
&CAPS 4030 | Making Sense of China: The Capstone Seminar&
#This course serves as a survey of major issues within Chinese politics and foreign policy and constitutes the capstone seminar for CAPS students. It is intended to give students an opportunity to explore aspects related to Chinese politics, economics, and society that they may have touched upon in other China-focused courses at Cornell, but have not been able to examine as fully, and with the degree of care, that they would like. In this regard, the substance of the course will be developed through an iterative process between the instructor and the seminar participants. We will spend the first part of the course doing a series of recent influential readings on contemporary China and developing initial research projects. The second half of the class will be organized around student led presentations of research projects (accompanied by relevant academic, media, and policy readings).#
&CAPS 4888 | Directed Study - Beijing&
#This directed study course allows CAPS students to enroll at Beida (Peking University) in courses offered to international students by the Peking University School of International Studies.#
&CAPS 4963 | China's Early Modern&
#Theories of modernization have inspired, informed, and plagued histories of middle and late imperial China. For the Song-Qing eras (roughly 10th-19th centuries), comparative studies have variously found and sought to explain modernization emerging earlier than in Europe, an absence of modernization, or alternative paths of modernization.  Regional models have argued for pan-East Asian systems and patterns of modernization. Global models have argued that China had a vital role in European development as a provenance of modernizing institutions and ideas, as a source of exploited resources, or otherwise as an integral part of global systems. In this course we explore these historiographical debates and develop critical perspectives, including approaches to escaping Eurocentric and teleological frameworks.#
&CAPS 4999 | CAPS Independent Study&
#Independent study course in topics not covered in regularly scheduled courses. Students select a topic in consultation with the faculty member who has agreed to supervise the course work.#


$CEE | Civil & Environmental Engineering$
&CEE 1130 | Sustainable Engineering of Energy, Water, Soil, and Air Resources&
#Course introduces concepts and tools required for the sustainable management of energy, water, soil, and air resources in our modern society.  Semester is organized into four modules, each concentrating on one resource area and including a case study of local or regional significance.  Students work in teams to address sustainability problems that arise in the case studies.  Each module also includes presentations of technical approaches used in environmental engineering analyses. Project teams will be expected to apply those methods in their case study evaluations and management proposals. Technical approaches include life cycle analysis, mass balance computations, and mathematical modeling of pollutant dynamics in the environment.#
&CEE 3090 | Special Topics in Civil and Environmental Engineering&
#Supervised study by individuals or groups of upper-division students on an undergraduate project or on specialized topics not covered in regular courses.#
&CEE 3102 | Basics of Programming in Python&
#The goal of this course is to provide students with a quick introduction to programming that will allow them to use Python as a problem solving tool for work, research, or study, and present a basis for continued learning of Python and other programming tools.#
&CEE 3200 | Engineering Computation&
#Introduction to numerical methods, computational mathematics, and probability and statistics. Development of programming and graphics proficiency with MATLAB and spreadsheets. Topics include Taylor-series approximations, numerical errors, condition numbers, operation counts, convergence, and stability, probability distributions, hypothesis testing. Included are numerical methods for solving engineering problems that entail roots of functions, simultaneous linear equations, statistics, regression, interpolation, numerical differentiation and integration, and solution of ordinary and partial differential equations, including an introduction to finite difference methods. Applications are drawn from different areas of engineering. A group project uses these methods on a realistic engineering problem.#
&CEE 3230 | Engineering Economics and Management&
#Introduction to engineering and business economics investment alternatives and to project management. Intended to give students a working knowledge of money management and how to make economic comparisons of alternatives involving future benefits and cost. The impact of inflation, taxation, depreciation, financial planning, economic optimization, project scheduling, and legal and regulatory issues are introduced and applied to economic investment and planning and project-management problems.#
&CEE 3510 | Environmental Quality Engineering&
#Introduction to engineering aspects of environmental quality control. Quality parameters, criteria, and standards for water and wastewater. Elementary analysis pertaining to the modeling of pollutant reactions in natural systems, and introduction to design of unit processes for wastewater treatment.#
&CEE 3610 | Introduction to Transportation Engineering&
#Introduces technological, economic, and social aspects of transportation. Emphasizes design and functioning of transportation systems and their components. Covers supply-demand interactions; system planning, design, and management; traffic flow, intersection control and network analysis; institutional and energy issues; and environmental impacts.#
&CEE 3710 | Structural Modeling and Behavior&
#Introduction to the structural engineering enterprise including aspects of design, loads, behavior, form, modeling, mechanics, materials, analysis, and construction/ manufacturing. Case studies involve different scales and various materials. Topics include analytical and finite-element computational modeling of structural systems, including cables, arches, trusses, beams, frames, and 2-D continua; deflections, strains, and stresses of structural members, systems, and 2-D continua by analytical and work/energy methods, with a focus on linear elastic behavior; the foundations of matrix structural analysis; and the application of finite-element software.#
&CEE 4000 | Senior Honors Thesis&
#Supervised research, study, and/or project work resulting in a written report or honors thesis.#
&CEE 4010 | Undergraduate Engineering Teaching in CEE&
#Methods of instruction developed through discussions with faculty and by assisting with the instruction of undergraduates under the supervision of faculty.#
&CEE 4090 | CEE Undergraduate Research&
#Research in any area of civil or environmental engineering on problems under investigation by the department or of special interest to the student, provided that adequate facilities can be obtained. The student must review pertinent literature, prepare a project outline, carry out an approved plan, and submit a formal final report.#
&CEE 4350 | Coastal Engineering&
#Covers the following topics: review of hydrodynamics, small-amplitude wave theory, wave statistics, wave-structure interactions, and coastal processes.#
&CEE 4530 | Laboratory Research in Environmental Engineering&
#Laboratory investigations of reactor flow characteristics; acid rain/lake chemistry; contaminated soil-site assessment and remediation; and wastewater treatment.#
&CEE 4565 | Waste Water Processes and Resources Recovery&
#Given the current state of the energy crisis and climate changes impacts, innovative approaches are needed in order to remediate, reduce and recover the energy and nutrient resources through various waste streams and to provide creative energy solutions that lead to self-sustaining wastewater treatment facilities. This course will cover fundamental theory of each unit operation process and design principles of major water and wastewater treatment processes. The topics will cover wastewater characteristics and evaluation methods, design flow and loads statistical analysis, process selection rationale, primary treatment processes, secondary treatment processes and tertiary and advanced treatment processes, and effluent and solids processing and disposal. In addition to the fundamentals of conventional wastewater processes, the course will also include the discussions on the emerging issues in water sustainability and advances in fundamental science and technology in integrating scientific principles, engineered processes, and systems analyses to address diverse challenges related to society's growing water needs and their nexus with energy and the environment. The course is designed to stimulate multi-disciplinary thinking and research among traditional areas of civil and environmental engineering, biology, chemistry, modeling, data science and others. Special projects will be designed to have students working in multi-disciplinary teams to develop sustainable solutions to meet the present and future water and resources needs of the society.#
&CEE 4620 | Analysis and Control of Transportation Systems and Networks&
#This course will cover the development and application of mathematical models and optimization techniques for the analysis and control of transportation systems and networks, with a focus on urban mobility. We will cover topics related to network routing, dynamic traffic models, static and dynamic traffic assignment, traffic control mechanisms and mobility-on-demand systems (including their connections to mass transit). Students will be expected to implement the algorithms covered in class during homework assignments and complete a final project.#
&CEE 4740 | Introduction to the Behavior of Metal Structures&
#Introductory course focused on the use of solid and structural mechanics to quantify elementary behavior of metal structures in order to enable design. The course is project focused; with the students preparing a complete and detailed design deliverable. The course considers applications from civil structures, naval architecture, and aerospace engineering.#
&CEE 4795 | Sensors for the Built and Natural Environments&
#Sensors are the link between the physical world and engineering decision making. This course introduces students to a wide variety of sensors with a specific focus on civil and environmental engineering applications such as material testing, structural health monitoring, traffic engineering, air and water quality monitoring, structural testing, watershed engineering, and geotechnical and subsurface energy applications. This course is intended to teach students how to implement sensors to measure physical quantities, conduct experiments, and develop monitoring tools for the natural environment and our engineered systems. Course topics include general introduction to different classes of sensors, data acquisition, signals, noise, system calibration, and uncertainty.#
&CEE 4880 | Applied Modeling and Simulation for Renewable Energy Systems&
#This course will provide an applied introduction to modeling, simulation and optimization techniques for various renewable energy systems. The course will be modular in nature. Each module will focus on a particular renewable energy application and relevant modeling/simulation tools. Some modules are independent and some will build on previous modules. The instructional format of the course will include lectures, scientific paper reviews, and some AMPL programming. Students will have an opportunity to apply new techniques to a relevant modeling project. The course will culminate with a modeling project relevant to renewable energy. Undergraduates will work in teams of 2-3 students to complete the term project.#
&CEE 5022 | Project in Environmental and Water Resources Systems&
#Project-based course in the area of environmental and water resources under the guidance of a faculty member.#
&CEE 5025 | Civil and Environmental Engineering Seminar for First-Year Research Students&
#We will invite our CEE faculty to host presentations related to topics they feel open to discussing. Examples may include: how to have a successful PhD and pitfalls to avoid, the academic and industry job markets, academic writing and presenting, how to select research topics, topics currently popular in research and who certain key players / universities / companies are, grants fellowships and scholarships, postdocs, effective teaching, the differences between being an academic in different types of schools and departments, work-life balance, etc.#
&CEE 5032 | Project in Environmental Fluid Mechanics and Hydrology&
#Project-based course in the area of environmental fluid mechanics and hydrology under the guidance of a faculty member.#
&CEE 5042 | Project in Geotechnical Engineering&
#Design of major geotechnical engineering project. Planning and preliminary design during fall semester; final design completed in January intersession.#
&CEE 5052 | Project in Environmental Engineering&
#Continuation of design project related to Environmental Engineering.#
&CEE 5062 | Project in Transportation Engineering&
#Systems analysis of a substantial transportation service.#
&CEE 5071 | Professional Experience in Structural Engineering&
#A comprehensive professional experience, involving: a real-world problem, an industry adviser, integrating technical course work, and resulting in a final written report. Representative themes for the practice experience include: forensic engineering studies and failure investigations; design of signature buildings or bridges; structural condition assessment and prognosis studies; etc.#
&CEE 5102 | Basics of Programming in Python&
#The goal of this course is to provide students with a quick introduction to programming that will allow them to use Python as a problem solving tool for work, research, or study, and present a basis for continued learning of Python and other programming tools.#
&CEE 5252 | Systems Analysis Behavior and Optimization&
#This is an advanced course in the application of analytical methodologies and tools to the analysis and optimization of complex systems. On completion of this course, students should be able to use probability and statistics as a modeling and analysis tool for systems exhibiting uncertainty; be able to use algorithms and dynamic programming to model and optimize systems with a recursive structure; be able to use optimization tools to optimize complex systems and tune parameters.#
&CEE 5420 | Energy Technologies and Subsurface Resources&
#This course will discuss the scientific basis for advancing sustainable energy systems including clean fossil and renewable energy resources. Specifically, the course will draw on the fundamentals of thermodynamics, chemical kinetics and transport behavior of fluids at solid interfaces. Students will evaluate the impacts of existing and emerging energy technologies on the environment. In a given week, we will discuss the energy resource of interest and the underlying scientific principles.#
&CEE 5610 | Introduction to Transportation Engineering&
#Introduces technological, economic, and social aspects of transportation. Emphasizes design and functioning of transportation systems and their components. Covers supply-demand interactions; system planning, design, and management; traffic flow, intersection control and network analysis; institutional and energy issues; and environmental impacts.#
&CEE 5710 | Timber Behavior and Design&
#This introductory course in timber behavior and design will discuss the materials of timber construction and their incorporation into building components and structural systems.#
&CEE 5745 | Inverse Problems: Theory and Applications&
#The course covers foundational theory underpinning the inverse problems that naturally arise when developing technology for society. Through a treatment of theory and application, the course aims to equip students to answer questions such as: "what source/forcing/action has caused the system response I am currently observing?"; "what model parameters best instantiate a predictive model explaining certain noisy/incomplete observations of the subject system?"; and "how certain am I about any of the foregoing results?"#
&CEE 5900 | Project Management&
#Core graduate course in project management for people who will manage technical or engineering projects. Focuses both on the "technical" tools of project management (e.g., methods for planning, scheduling, and control) and the "human" side (e.g., forming a project team, managing performance, resolving conflicts), with somewhat greater emphasis on the latter.#
&CEE 6021 | Seminar: Environmental Engineering and Water Resources&
#Graduate students and faculty members give informal lectures on various topics related to ongoing research in environmental engineering or water resources.#
&CEE 6075 | Special Topics in Structural Engineering&
#Study of topics in structural engineering that are more specialized or different from other courses. Special topics depend on faculty and student interests.#
&CEE 6080 | Seminar: Engineering Systems and Management&
#No description available.#
&CEE 6091 | Seminar: Project Management&
#Weekly seminar aimed at M.Eng students, in particular in the engineering management program. Weekly speaker will come from different engineering applications and discuss insights into project management. Seminar is non-participatory.#
&CEE 6095 | Special Topics in Engineering Management&
#Individually supervised study of one or more specialized topics not covered in regular courses.#
&CEE 6350 | Coastal Engineering&
#No description available.#
&CEE 6400 | Data-Driven Control of Large-Scale Environmental Systems&
#No description available.#
&CEE 6550 | Transport, Mixing, and Transformation in the Environment&
#Application of fluid mechanics to problems of transport, mixing, and transformation in the water environment. Introduction to advective, diffuse, and dispersive processes in the environment. Boundary interactions: air-water and sediment-water processes. Introduction to chemical and biochemical transformation processes. Applications to transport, mixing, and transformation in rivers, lakes, and coastal waters.#
&CEE 6565 | Waste Water Processes and Resources Recovery&
#Given the current state of the energy crisis and climate changes impacts, innovative approaches are needed in order to remediate, reduce and recover the energy and nutrient resources through various waste streams and to provide creative energy solutions that lead to self-sustaining wastewater treatment facilities. This course will cover fundamental theory of each unit operation process and design principles of major water and wastewater treatment processes. The topics will cover wastewater characteristics and evaluation methods, design flow and loads statistical analysis, process selection rationale, primary treatment processes, secondary treatment processes and tertiary and advanced treatment processes, and effluent and solids processing and disposal. In addition to the fundamentals of conventional wastewater processes, the course will also include the discussions on the emerging issues in water sustainability and advances in fundamental science and technology in integrating scientific principles, engineered processes, and systems analyses to address diverse challenges related to society's growing water needs and their nexus with energy and the environment. The course is designed to stimulate multi-disciplinary thinking and research among traditional areas of civil and environmental engineering, biology, chemistry, modeling, data science and others. Special projects will be designed to have students working in multi-disciplinary teams to develop sustainable solutions to meet the present and future water and resources needs of the society.#
&CEE 6590 | Partitioning and Transformation of Organic Contaminants in Environmental Systems&
#This course examines the major physical and chemical processes affecting the transport, fate, and treatment of organic chemicals in aquatic systems, including volatilization, sorption/attachment, diffusion, and transformation reactions. The emphasis is on anthropogenic legacy chemicals and chemicals of emerging concern such pharmaceuticals and personal care products. The course examines the relationships between chemical structure, properties, and environmental behavior. Equilibrium and kinetic models based on these principles are used to predict the fate and transport of organic contaminants in the environment.#
&CEE 6620 | Analysis and Control of Transportation Systems and Networks&
#This course will cover the development and application of mathematical models and optimization techniques for the analysis and control of transportation systems and networks, with a focus on urban mobility. We will cover topics related to network routing, dynamic traffic models, static and dynamic traffic assignment, traffic control mechanisms and mobility-on-demand systems (including their connections to mass transit). Students will be expected to implement the algorithms covered in class during homework assignments and complete a final project. Students in 6620 will also be required to review and critique research publication in the area of their project.#
&CEE 6660 | Multiobjective Systems Engineering Under Uncertainty&
#Exploration of engineering design frameworks that effectively exploit simulation, optimization, and uncertainty assessments when balancing large numbers of conflicting performance objectives. Students will learn and advance software frameworks that combine evolutionary multiobjective optimization, high performance computing, uncertainty modeling techniques, and visual design analytics. The primary focus will be improving multi-stakeholder design of complex engineered systems. Course concepts will be demonstrated using case studies and projects drawn from the disciplines of the students enrolled.#
&CEE 6680 | Optimal Control and Decision Theory&
#Covers the basic models and solution approaches for individual and team decision-making problems under uncertainty and provide a unified mathematical treatment of the subject, suitable for a broad engineering audience. The material will consider optimal decision-making of systems over a finite- and an infinite-time horizon. Topics include: (1) Stochastic optimization: finite- and infinite-horizon problems with complete or partial state information, separation principle, dual control; (2) Team Theory: mathematical framework of cooperating members in which all members have the same objective yet different information; (3) Reinforcement learning:  approximate dynamic programming, forward references to the approximate dynamic programming formalism, learning policies.#
&CEE 6745 | Inverse Problems: Theory and Applications&
#The course covers foundational theory underpinning the inverse problems that naturally arise when developing technology for society. Through a treatment of theory and application, the course aims to equip students to answer questions such as: "what source/forcing/action has caused the system response I am currently observing?"; "what model parameters best instantiate a predictive model explaining certain noisy/incomplete observations of the subject system?"; and "how certain am I about any of the foregoing results?"#
&CEE 6755 | Finite Element Method: Theory and Applications in Mechanics and Multiphysics&
#This class is an intermediate-level course on the linear Finite Element Method (FEM) for graduate engineering students. The students will learn to: set up the strong formulation of mechanical, hydraulic, thermal, and coupled problems, write the variational formulation, discretize the weak form in space and time, choose a resolution algorithm, write an input file for a FEM software, and interpret numerical results. Applications will focus on climate change and energy. First, one-dimensional problems will be solved for one dependent variable, e.g., elongation, fluid flow, heat transfer. Second, hydro-mechanical equations for two-phase porous media will be introduced and applied to consolidation problems. Next, 2D space discretization and numerical integration will be explained and applied through simulation and analysis of problems of plane elasticity and seepage. The course will conclude with the modeling unsaturated porous media with applications to geological storage, evapo-transpiration, and subsidence.#
&CEE 6880 | Applied Modeling and Simulation for Renewable Energy Systems&
#This course will provide an applied introduction to modeling, simulation and optimization techniques for various renewable energy systems. The course will be modular in nature. Each module will focus on a particular renewable energy application and relevant modeling/simulation tools. Some modules are independent and some will build on previous modules. The instructional format of the course will include lectures, scientific paper reviews, and some AMPL programming. Students will have an opportunity to apply new techniques to a relevant modeling project. The course will culminate with a modeling project relevant to renewable energy. Graduate students will be required to complete the term project on an individual basis.#
&CEE 6910 | Project Management&
#Core graduate course in project management for people who will manage technical or engineering projects. Focuses both on the "technical" tools of project management (e.g., methods for planning, scheduling, and control) and the "human" side (e.g., forming a project team, managing performance, resolving conflicts), with somewhat greater emphasis on the latter.#
&CEE 7070 | Research in Structural Engineering&
#Pursues a branch of structural engineering beyond what is covered in regular courses. Theoretical or experimental investigation of suitable problems.#
&CEE 7073 | Civil and Environmental Engineering Materials Project&
#Individual projects or reading and study assignments involving engineering materials.#
&CEE 8100 | Thesis - Remote Sensing&
#The student selects a thesis research topic with the advice of the faculty member in charge and pursues it either independently or in conjunction with others working on the same topic.#
&CEE 8200 | Thesis - Environmental and Water Resource Systems&
#The student selects a thesis research topic with the advice of the faculty member in charge and pursues it either independently or in conjunction with others working on the same topic.#
&CEE 8300 | Thesis - Environmental Fluid Mechanics and Hydrology&
#The student selects a thesis research topic with the advice of the faculty member in charge and pursues it either independently or in conjunction with others working on the same topic.#
&CEE 8400 | Thesis - Geotechnical Engineering&
#The student selects a thesis research topic with the advice of the faculty member in charge and pursues it either independently or in conjunction with others working on the same topic.#
&CEE 8500 | Thesis - Environmental Engineering&
#The student selects a thesis research topic with the advice of the faculty member in charge and pursues it either independently or in conjunction with others working on the same topic.#
&CEE 8600 | Thesis - Transportation Systems Engineering&
#The student selects a thesis research topic with the advice of the faculty member in charge and pursues it either independently or in conjunction with others working on the same topic.#
&CEE 8700 | Thesis - Structural Engineering&
#The student selects a thesis research topic with the advice of the faculty member in charge and pursues it either independently or in conjunction with others working on the same topic.#
&CEE 8800 | Thesis - Civil Infrastructure Systems&
#The student selects a thesis research topic with the advice of the faculty member in charge and pursues it either independently or in conjunction with others working on the same topic.#


$CHEM | Chemistry$
&CHEM 1008 | Academic Support for CHEM 2080&
#CHEM 1008 reviews material presented in CHEM 2080 lectures and also provides problem-solving strategies and practice.#
&CHEM 1058 | Academic Support for CHEM 3580&
#Reviews material presented in CHEM 3580 lectures and offers practice with CHEM 3580 material. Weekly review sessions focus on the most important topics covered in lecture and office hours held throughout the week are designed to help improve performance in CHEM 3580.#
&CHEM 1570 | Introduction to Organic and Biological Chemistry&
#Introduction to organic chemistry concepts with emphasis on structure, reactivity, and mechanisms of carbon compounds relevant to the life sciences.#
&CHEM 2070 | General Chemistry I&
#Covers fundamental chemical principles, with considerable attention given to the quantitative aspects and techniques important for further work in chemistry. Main topics include chemical transformations and equations, periodic trends of the elements, electronic structure of atoms, chemical bonding, and the collective behavior of molecules.#
&CHEM 2080 | General Chemistry II&
#Covers fundamental chemical principles, including reaction kinetics, thermodynamics, and equilibrium. These principles are presented quantitatively and explored in the laboratory. Considerable attention is given to the quantitative calculations and techniques important for further work in chemistry.#
&CHEM 2090 | Engineering General Chemistry&
#Covers basic chemical concepts, such as reactivity and bonding of molecules, introductory quantum mechanics, and intermolecular forces in liquids and solids and gases. Attention will be focused on aspects and applications of chemistry most pertinent to engineering.#
&CHEM 2510 | Introduction to Experimental Organic Chemistry&
#Introduction to the synthesis, separation, characterization, and handling of materials, including chromatography, extraction, crystallization, infrared spectroscopy, and others. An experiment is performed the first week of lab. Students need to enroll in the course Canvas site and complete the appropriate pre-lab assignments outlined on that site before coming to the first lab.#
&CHEM 2780 | Methods in Chemical Education II&
#CHEM 2780 is the second teaching methods companion class to CHEM 2070 and CHEM 2080. CHEM 2780 students will co-lead weekly 2-hour review sessions; meet in 2-hour group meetings to develop and refine teaching materials; attend a 1-hour discussion class on a current STEM pedagogical theory; and assess teaching progress for 1-hour (all activities on a weekly basis).#
&CHEM 2900 | Introductory Physical Chemistry Laboratory&
#Survey of the methods basic to the experimental study of physical chemistry, with a focus on the areas of chemical equilibrium, kinetics, thermodynamics, and molecular spectroscopy.#
&CHEM 3010 | Honors Experimental Chemistry I&
#Introduction to the techniques of synthetic organic chemistry. A representative selection of the most important classes of organic reactions is explored in the first half of the semester, augmented by lectures on the reaction chemistry and the theory of separation and characterization techniques.#
&CHEM 3030 | Honors Experimental Chemistry III&
#Introduction to experimental physical chemistry, including topics in spectroscopy and kinetics. The analysis and numerical simulation of experimental data is stressed.#
&CHEM 3570 | Organic Chemistry for the Life Sciences&
#Study of the important classes of carbon compounds-including those encountered in the biological sciences. The course emphasizes their three-dimensional structures, mechanisms of their characteristic reactions, their synthesis, methods of identifying them, and their role in modern science and technology.#
&CHEM 3580 | Organic Chemistry for the Life Sciences&
#The course emphasizes the important classes of organic compounds, with particular emphasis on their three-dimensional structures, mechanisms of their characteristic reactions, their synthesis, methods for their identification, and their applications in modern technology and medicine.#
&CHEM 3590 | Honors Organic Chemistry I&
#The course provides an intensive introduction to organic chemistry as a solid foundation for subsequent study in the fields of chemical, biological, materials and physical sciences. Students will learn a set of important tools and concepts that will enable appreciation and powerful application of modern organic chemistry.#
&CHEM 3880 | Basics of Biophysical Chemistry&
#This course builds on principles of physical chemistry as can be applied to molecular biochemistry and cell biology. Topics include thermodynamics of solutions, equilibrium binding and kinetics of biomolecular processes, oxidation-reduction reactions and electrochemical potential of membranes, and spectroscopy to examine structures and dynamics.#
&CHEM 3900 | Honors Physical Chemistry II&
#CHEM 3900 is a continuation of CHEM 3890 and discusses the thermodynamic behavior of macroscopic systems in the context of quantum and statistical mechanics. After an introduction to the behavior of ensembles of quantum mechanical particles, the laws of thermodynamics, concepts of equilibrium, and chemical kinetics are covered in detail.#
&CHEM 4100 | Inorganic Chemistry&
#Discussion of chemical bonding and reactivity with an emphasis on the transition metals. A "ground up" approach will be taken, building bonding models from atomic electronic structure to molecular orbital theory. Course will also introduce concepts germane to solid state chemistry, bioinorganic chemistry, and organometallic catalysis.#
&CHEM 4210 | Introduction to Inorganic Chemistry Research&
#Research in inorganic chemistry involving both laboratory and library work, planned in consultation with a faculty member.#
&CHEM 4330 | Introduction to Analytical Chemistry Research&
#Research in analytical chemistry involving both laboratory and library work, planned in consultation with a faculty member.#
&CHEM 4430 | Introduction to Chemical Biology Research&
#Research in chemical biology involving both laboratory and library work, planned in consultation with a faculty member.#
&CHEM 4610 | Introduction to Organic Chemistry Research&
#Research in organic chemistry involving both laboratory and library work, planned in consultation with a faculty member.#
&CHEM 4770 | Introduction to Physical Chemistry Research&
#Research in physical chemistry involving both laboratory and library work, planned in consultation with a faculty member.#
&CHEM 4810 | Computational Methods in Chemistry&
#This course provides a broad overview of modern computational methods in Chemistry. Topics covered will include investigating the statistical mechanics of condensed phase chemical systems using Monte Carlo and Molecular Dynamics, quantum mechanical characterization of molecular energetics and structure using Electronic Structure Theory (Hartree Fock, Perturbation Theory, and Density Functional Theory), and time-dependent approaches to investigate chemical reaction dynamics and kinetics.#
&CHEM 4980 | Honors Seminar&
#In the Chemistry Honors Seminar students will present their research in written and oral form. The course will also include a broader discussion of professional issues and life skills in the world of chemistry.#
&CHEM 5120 | Capstone Research Project&
#Supervision of Capstone Research Project.#
&CHEM 5810 | Computational Methods in Chemistry&
#This course provides a broad overview of modern computational methods in Chemistry. Topics covered will include investigating the statistical mechanics of condensed phase chemical systems using Monte Carlo and Molecular Dynamics, quantum mechanical characterization of molecular energetics and structure using Electronic Structure Theory (Hartree Fock, Perturbation Theory, and Density Functional Theory), and time-dependent approaches to investigate chemical reaction dynamics and kinetics.#
&CHEM 6090 | Nanomaterials: Chemistry and Physics&
#This course will provide a foundational background in the science of nanoscale materials, a research field that has been extremely active for more than twenty years. Simplified models of quantum mechanics, band theory, statistical mechanics, thermodynamics, and surface science will be presented. This theoretical background will be used to understand the structure and properties of inorganic materials, such as nanocrystals and nanowires, and organic materials, such as carbon nanotubes, graphene, and π-conjugated molecules. Previous exposure to quantum mechanics at the level of the Schrödinger equation will be assumed. The intended audience is first-year graduate students and upper-level undergraduate students in chemistry and related fields, including applied physics, physics, and materials/chemical/electrical/mechanical engineering.#
&CHEM 6250 | Advanced Analytical Chemistry I&
#Application of NMR spectroscopy and high-resolution mass spectroscopy in organic chemistry, metabolomics, chemical biology, synthesis, inorganic chemistry, and polymer chemistry. Optional labs provide hands-on experience with NMR and MS instruments in the Cornell Chemistry Department and at Boyce Thompson Institute.#
&CHEM 6290 | Electrochemistry&
#Fundamentals and applications of electrochemistry. Topics include the fundamentals of electrode kinetics, electron transfer theory, the electrical double layer, diffusion, and other modes of mass transport. A broad range of electrochemical methods, techniques and instrumentation will also be covered. Additional subjects may be covered depending on class interest.#
&CHEM 6400 | Bioinorganic Chemistry&
#No description available.#
&CHEM 6650 | Advanced Organic Chemistry&
#The course focuses on stereoelectronic properties of organic compounds, conformational analysis, reaction thermodynamics and kinetics, stereochemistry, reactive intermediates, and catalysis. Case studies will focus on applications of these concepts and corresponding techniques that lead to creative design of selective organic synthesis and mechanistic insights into complex organic transformations. A particular emphasis is on the development of chemical and mechanistic intuition that will facilitate the students' laboratory research efforts.#
&CHEM 6690 | Modern Catalytic Reactions in Organic Synthesis&
#Catalysis is fundamental and essential to modern organic synthesis. This course will cover topics in transition metal catalysis, biocatalysis, photoredox catalysis, and electrosynthesis with a focus on reaction mechanism and synthetic applications. Topics of current interest are emphasized.Transition metal-based catalysts are invaluable in both organic and polymer synthesis. This course begins with an overview of organometallic chemistry and catalysis. Subsequent modules on catalytic synthesis of small molecules and polymers are then presented. Topics of current interest are emphasized.#
&CHEM 6880 | Basics of Biophysical Chemistry&
#This course builds on principles of physical chemistry as can be applied to molecular biochemistry and cell biology. Topics include thermodynamics of solutions, equilibrium binding and kinetics of biomolecular processes, oxidation-reduction reactions and electrochemical potential of membranes, and spectroscopy to examine structures and dynamics.#
&CHEM 7870 | Computational Methods of Physical Chemistry&
#This course will introduce students to analytical and computational methods useful for graduate-level research in both experimental and theoretical physical chemistry. These methods will be used to explore interesting topics in quantum mechanics and statistical mechanics. The goal of this course is to bridge the gap between the analytical techniques taught in introductory courses and the computational (and visualization) methods required for modern research problems. Topics explored will include: scientific programming and visualization, numerical solution of the Schrödinger equation, linear and nonlinear optimization techniques, stochastic/Monte Carlo methods, and Machine Learning.#
&CHEM 7940 | Quantum Mechanics II&
#No description available.#


$CHEME | Chemical Engineering$
&CHEME 2200 | Physical Chemistry II for Engineers&
#Applications of quantum chemistry to (1) the interaction of electromagnetic radiation with matter for spectroscopy and strategic bond breaking and (2) the behavior of electrons in solids – insulators, conductors, and semiconductors. Quantum and statistical mechanics for classical thermodynamics – 1st and 2nd laws, phase equilibrium, chemical equilibrium, and heat pumps. Devising rate equations for chemical reactor design from experiment and theory – kinetic theory of gases and transition state theory.#
&CHEME 3010 | Career Perspectives&
#Weekly presentations by visiting chemical and biomolecular engineers to describe career paths and current professions. Job overviews and day-to-day details. Lessons learned from experiences.#
&CHEME 3230 | Fluid Mechanics&
#Fundamentals of fluid mechanics. Macroscopic and microscopic balances. Applications to problems involving viscous flow.#
&CHEME 3320 | Analysis of Separation Processes&
#Analysis and design of chemical separation processes involving phase equilibria and mass transfer. Topics include: continuous and batch processing; counter-current and co-current flow patterns; tray columns and packed columns for distillation, gas absorption/stripping, and liquid-liquid extraction; batch separation by selective adsorption on solids; continuous separation by selective permeation through membranes; and choosing among separation options.#
&CHEME 3720 | Introduction to Process Dynamics and Control&
#Modeling and analysis of the dynamics of chemical processes, Laplace transforms, block diagrams, feedback control systems, and stability analysis.#
&CHEME 3900 | Chemical Kinetics and Reactor Design&
#Study of chemical reaction kinetics and principles of reactor design for chemical processes.#
&CHEME 4020 | Molecular Principles of Biomedical Engineering&
#Genomic and proteomic thinking and tools have revolutionized the way scientists study biology and medicine. We are now beginning to understand the molecular level mechanisms that underlie normal and pathologic cellular functions. As a consequence, novel molecular level approaches provide the basis for better diagnostic and therapeutic strategies to effectively treat or prevent human diseases. This course aims to present a broad overview of molecular level techniques that are relevant in many aspects of biomedical engineering. We will discuss the underlying principles, how to interpret representative data, limitations of current approaches, and engineering challenges for the development of new and improved techniques.#
&CHEME 4620 | Chemical Engineering Design&
#Students work in teams to address a chemical plant or chemical product design challenge. Teams will prepare, depending on the project type, a full-scale feasibility study of a chemical process including product supply and demand forecasts, assess product functionality through prototyping, scale-up risks, identify energy and waste minimization opportunities, develop mass and energy balances that results in a process flow sheet sufficient for estimating the capital and operating costs of the process facilities. Students also define off-plot support facilities and estimate the capital and operating costs of those facilities to develop an economic analysis of the facilities and to provide an ultimate recommendation as to the project's viability. Some teams will engage company sponsors for key process/product data and design constraints. Students develop presentation and teamwork skills through weekly presentations of their work culminating in a final presentation to a panel of internal and external appraisers.#
&CHEME 4900 | Undergraduate Projects in Chemical Engineering&
#Research or studies on special problems in chemical engineering.#
&CHEME 4998 | International Research Internship&
#Research or studies on special problems in chemical engineering for visiting international students.#
&CHEME 5235 | Design of Soft Materials&
#Soft materials have unique properties, exploited widely by nature and industry. They are made from a variety of building blocks, including small molecules, macromolecules, and particles. These basic constituents can be arranged into a vast range of microstructures that determine their macroscopic material properties. This course will explore this broad material space, identify unifying scientific ideas, and explore practical strategies for their design. A top-down approach, which emphasizes their macroscopic behavior, will be combined with a bottom-up approach, that describes their microscopic structure and dynamics.#
&CHEME 5240 | Chemical Process Safety Management&
#Implementation of Process Safety Management (PSM) is a complex task that requires planning, coordination, and considerable resources. PSM is typically a risk-based management process with higher risk processing units receiving higher priority. PSM will be broken down into smaller, manageable pieces that can be developed and implemented in a logical sequence. Industry standard structure, covering the various aspects that define PSM, will be followed.#
&CHEME 5440 | Advanced Principles of Biomolecular Engineering&
#This course will cover the physical principles required for understanding the molecular basis of life and its use in biotechnologies. Emphasis will be placed on deconstructing biological phenomena from a quantitative perspective of core engineering principles. Specific topics will include: thermodynamics and kinetics of gene expression and genetic circuitry, biophysical principles of molecular interaction, molecular mechanisms in the definition of cell state and differentiation, molecular modes of cellular communication, and biophysical considerations for multicellular life.#
&CHEME 5450 | Introduction to Systems and Synthetic Biology&
#This course will explore experimental and computational Systems and Synthetic Biology principles. It will address critical challenges in human health, biopharmaceutical production, and bioenergy systems. The primary emphasis will be on understanding the structure, properties, and role of signal transduction and metabolic pathways in these applications. Additionally, the course will cover essential tools and strategies used in the emerging fields of whole-cell and cell-free Synthetic Biology to program novel behavior in cells or cell-free systems. This course will prepare students for advanced research positions and professional practice.#
&CHEME 5540 | Principles of Molecular Simulation&
#Introduction to molecular simulation methods, Molecular Dynamics and Monte Carlo. Understanding options for interatomic and intermolecular modeling and appropriate representation of materials.#
&CHEME 5650 | Design Project&
#Design study and economic evaluation of a chemical processing facility, alternative methods of manufacture, raw-material preparation, food processing, waste disposal, or some other aspect of chemical processing.#
&CHEME 5651 | M. Eng. Design Project Studio&
#Studio design team work sessions for the Master of Engineering chemical process project.#
&CHEME 5710 | Lean Operations Design and Process Optimization&
#An introduction into Lean base process design and operations management based on the Toyota Production System model (Lean). A deeper dive into the specific focus points of effective and clear process design, effective problem solving along with managerial expectations will be investigated and discussed. Tools/principles such as process mapping, data collection and analysis, gap analysis, cycle time content and balance, lead-time assessment and management, quality performance analysis and remediation, sustainable control measures, demand/takt time analysis and relation to demonstrated equipment/process capacity, process stability assessment, six sigma will be covered in detail. These tools will drive towards effective observation and analysis of process performance so that relevant and impactful process improvements related to cycle time, quality, lead time, and cost can be achieved. Content of delivery is supported through business case analyses and class discussion/debate by the students along with hands-on team activities throughout the semester in order to link theory with some level of practical outcomes. Industrial examples will also be linked to the theory throughout the class as case studies or videos. Guest speakers may be included where possible to link theory with practice.#
&CHEME 5820 | Machine Learning and Artificial Intelligence Methods for Engineers&
#Engineering practice increasingly relies on computational tools, data analysis, and Machine Learning approaches. This one-semester course introduces machine learning, focusing on supervised learning and its theoretical foundations in the context of engineering practice. Topics include regularized linear models, boosting, kernel methods, deep learning approaches, generative modeling tools, decision-making in stochastic systems, and reinforcement learning approaches.#
&CHEME 5880 | Energy Seminar II&
#Energy Seminars will continue to explore energy-related topics of emerging, contemporary and historical interest. An abbreviated list of subjects explored in the seminars includes: global energy resources, energy generation technologies (present and future), energy storage options, environmental impacts and climate change mitigation, energy policy, and energy delivery economics and systems. Seminar speakers will be distinguished practicing engineers and executives from industry and government as well as faculty members from several departments at Cornell, and other academic institutions. Students from any department in Engineering or the Physical Sciences should find these talks informative.#
&CHEME 5990 | Medical and Industrial Biotechnology Seminar&
#Students attend seminars of their selection and write one-page summaries. Eligible seminars include all listings that are related to medical and industrial biotechnology.#
&CHEME 5999 | Special Projects in Chemical Engineering&
#Nonthesis research or studies on special problems in chemical engineering.#
&CHEME 6240 | Advanced Fluid Mechanics and Heat Transfer&
#Topics include derivation of conservation equations; conductive heat transfer; low Reynolds number fluid dynamics; lubrication theory; inviscid fluid dynamics; boundary layer theory; forced convection; and introduction to non-Newtonian fluid mechanics (polymeric liquids and suspensions), microfluidics, stability analysis, and turbulent flow.#
&CHEME 6400 | Polymeric Materials&
#Covers chemistry and physics of the formation and characterization of polymers; principles of fabrication.#
&CHEME 6420 | Chemical Kinetics and Transport&
#Topics include microscopic and macroscopic viewpoints; connections between phenomenological chemical kinetics and molecular reaction dynamics; reaction cross sections, potential energy surfaces, and dynamics of biomolecular collisions; molecular beam scattering; transition state theory. Unimolecular reaction dynamics; complex chemically reacting systems: reactor stability, multiple steady states, oscillations, and bifurcation; reactions in heterogeneous media; and free-radical mechanisms in combustion and pyrolysis.#
&CHEME 6430 | Advanced Principles of Biomolecular Engineering&
#This course will cover the physical principles required for understanding the molecular basis of life and its use in biotechnologies. Emphasis will be placed on deconstructing biological phenomena from a quantitative perspective of core engineering principles. Specific topics will include: thermodynamics and kinetics of gene expression and genetic circuitry, biophysical principles of molecular interaction, molecular mechanisms in the definition of cell state and differentiation, molecular modes of cellular communication, and biophysical considerations for multicellular life.#
&CHEME 6662 | Solar Energy Module&
#Energy technology module of CHEME 6660 provides a comprehensive overview of solar energy conversion technologies. Major themes range from fundamental (nuts and bolts) solid-state concepts and operating principles of photovoltaics to manufacturing of cells and modules, balance of system aspects, and perspectives on second- and third-generation photovoltaic technologies. The module also summarizes solar thermal power technologies including passive and active solar heating, concentrated solar power plants.#
&CHEME 6663 | Geothermal Energy Module&
#Energy technology module of CHEME 6660 focuses on the utilization of low-temperature geothermal energy: geothermal heat pumps, district heating systems for heating and cooling, hybrid geothermal systems and cogeneration applications. It also discusses shallow and deep geothermal reservoir thermal modeling. Technical economic and environmental aspects of large scale geothermal deployment will be covered.#
&CHEME 6679 | Energy Storage Module&
#The performance, cost, and safety of energy storage technology are recognized at the Achilles' heel in our transition towards a sustainable energy portfolio. The broad integration of inherently intermitted renewable energy sources (e.g., solar and wind) is critically dependent on technological advances in energy storage. The infrastructure used to store chemical, electrical, and thermal energy is extensive, multiscale, and capital intensive. Coverage in this module includes thermal energy storage, and electrical energy storage and conversion. Technologies evaluated include fuel cells, batteries, compressed air energy storage (CAES), pumped hydro, supercapacitors and flywheels.#
&CHEME 6681 | Energy Analysis Project&
#Capstone energy analysis project covering a topic of interest. Relevant background information will be provided in CHEME 6660: Analysis of Sustainable Energy Systems - course lectures as well as from the other energy modules offered. Specific projects should include, to the extent possible, a quantitative discussion of resource assessment, energy extraction/capture, conversion, distribution, storage, and consumption; environmental and economic consequences spanning local to global scales.#
&CHEME 6682 | Energy Economics for Engineers&
#Energy Economics for Engineers will prepare students to employ engineering and economic tools and techniques to analyze large and small energy projects and make effective recommendations on energy choices. The course will also cover energy systems, markets, innovation, and policy with a focus on aspects that are required to support thorough and complete project analysis. Energy technology module of  CHEME 6660 - Analysis of Sustainable Energy Systems.#
&CHEME 6820 | AI for Materials&
#This course module of CHEME 6888 focuses on the application of artificial intelligence (AI) in materials science. Students will explore how AI and machine learning techniques can accelerate the design, discovery, and optimization of materials for energy storage, conversion, and sustainability. Key topics include using AI to predict material properties, enhance materials synthesis, and model complex material behaviors. The course emphasizes practical applications of deep learning models in materials science, featuring hands-on projects and case studies from recent research. Students will also discuss the challenges and opportunities of applying AI to advance innovations in materials science.#
&CHEME 6888 | Deep Learning&
#This course provides a comprehensive overview of deep learning, covering basic concepts, models, algorithms, and applications. Topics include artificial neural networks, training techniques, convolutional neural networks, recurrent neural networks, generative deep learning, deep reinforcement learning, and deep learning hardware and software. Recent advances in deep learning, such as graph neural networks, attention, Transformer, ViT, BERT, and GPT, will also be discussed. The course explores deep learning-based applications in optimization, sensing, control, and automation, and in AI for Science, including molecular design, material discovery, and pharmaceutical development.#
&CHEME 6930 | Peer Mentoring and Leadership Essentials&
#This course develops fundamental communication, coaching, mentorship and leadership skills for PhD students.  It is designed specifically for PhD mentors in the Ezra's Bridge program; however, the course is appropriate for all PhD students who wish to be more effective lab members and leaders.#
&CHEME 6950 | Engineering Education Teaching and Research Methods&
#Intended for graduate students who are interested in teaching engineering or related fields as part of their future careers. Includes both discussion and practice of effective teaching techniques, assessments and technologies, an overview of current engineering education research, equity and inclusion in the undergraduate engineering classroom, and action research methods using qualitative/quantitative/mixed methodologies to develop teacher scholars.#
&CHEME 7700 | Chemical Engineering Graduate Research Seminar&
#Chemical Engineering graduate students in their third year and above must present an annual seminar on their research. Provides training in public presentation and dissemination of scientific data. Constructive feedback on the quality of the presentation and research will be submitted by attendees.#
&CHEME 7740 | Principles of Molecular Simulation&
#Introduction to molecular simulation methods, Molecular Dynamics and Monte Carlo. Understanding options for interatomic and intermolecular modeling and appropriate representation of materials.#
&CHEME 7900 | Chemical Engineering Seminar&
#General chemical engineering seminar.#


$CHERO | Cherokee$
&CHERO 1120 | Beginning Cherokee II&
#A continuation of the study of the Cherokee language, with emphasis on Cherokee culture and history, grammar, vocabulary, and conversational and comprehension skills. The focus is on the use of visual and audio materials, communicative activities, and interaction with Cherokee speakers and community members.#


$CHIN | Chinese$
&CHIN 1102 | Beginning Mandarin II&
#For beginners only, providing a thorough grounding in conversational and reading skills. Students with any previous background or training in the language will need to take the Mandarin Placement Test to determine which Chinese course will best suit their needs.#
&CHIN 1110 | Beginning Chinese Reading and Writing for Students of Chinese Heritage II&
#Continuation of CHIN 1109. Intended primarily for students whose family language is Mandarin but who have had little or no formal training. The focus is on reading, writing and speaking, as well as culture, and current events in the Chinese speaking community.#
&CHIN 1122 | Beginning Mandarin for Professional Students II&
#A continuation of   CHIN 1121. This course helps students develop basic skills in Mandarin Chinese, at a moderate pace. For non-heritage learners only.#
&CHIN 1124 | Beginning Mandarin for Professional Students IV&
#A continuation of  CHIN 1123 . This course helps students develop basic skills in Mandarin Chinese, at a moderate pace. For non-heritage learners only.#
&CHIN 2202 | Intermediate Mandarin II&
#Continuing instruction in written and spoken Chinese with particular emphasis on consolidating basic conversational skills and improving reading confidence and ability.#
&CHIN 2210 | Intermediate Chinese Reading and Writing for Students of Chinese Heritage II&
#If your long-term goal is to move past the intermediate Chinese learning plateau and gain the ability to participate fully in the Chinese-speaking world, this course is the next step you need to take. This course uses a combination of short essays written by well-known Chinese writers and news articles from a wonderful news platform and focuses on how to read and write effectively through 1) learning both semi-formal and formal vocabulary, modern idiomatic expressions, advanced sentence structures and the major features that characterize advanced Chinese; 2) exploring the different aspects of Chinese culture or events that interest you; 3) completing a book or a magazine in Chinese as the course project applying what students learn during the semester. This course helps students further solidify their foundation for advanced-level study in Chinese, as well as enhance their awareness of and overall competence in cross-cultural communication.#
&CHIN 3302 | High Intermediate Mandarin II&
#Continuing instruction in spoken and written Mandarin Chinese via text and authentic multimedia materials.#
&CHIN 3352 | High Intermediate Mandarin II: CAPS in Beijing&
#Equivalent to CHIN 3302. Continuing instruction in spoken Chinese and in various genres and styles of written Chinese.#
&CHIN 4412 | Advanced Mandarin II&
#Reading, discussion, and composition at advanced levels.#
&CHIN 4428 | High Advanced Mandarin II&
#This course aims to help students achieve an advanced level of performance both in speaking and writing through reading authentic Chinese materials, watching TV shows, various writing exercises, and class discussions on social and cultural topics on contemporary China. Classical Chinese will be introduced in this course through supplementary readings.#
&CHIN 4452 | Advanced Mandarin II: CAPS in Beijing&
#Equivalent to CHIN 4412 .  Reading, discussion, and composition at advanced levels.#
&CHIN 4454 | High Advanced Mandarin II: CAPS in Beijing&
#This course is designed for students who have satisfactorily finished CHIN 4427 or the equivalent.  The focus of the course is on formal Chinese, and the main aim of this course is to help students achieve an advanced level of Chinese performance, so that they may combine Chinese with their work in their majors.  The course material will be formal Chinese writings by native speakers, mostly for native speakers, related to students' majors and fields of interest.  In addition, classical Chinese will also be introduced through readngs as a means to enhance students' understanding of the language.#


$CHLIT | Chinese Literature$
&CHLIT 2214 | Introduction to Classical Chinese II&
#Students read from early Classical Chinese texts and learn to use advanced sources for solving textual problems.#
&CHLIT 4422 | Directed Study&
#Students choose a faculty member to oversee this independent study. The student and the faculty member work together to develop course content.#
&CHLIT 6622 | Advanced Directed Reading&
#Students choose a faculty member to oversee this independent study. The student and the faculty member work together to develop class readings.#


$CLASS | Classics$
&CLASS 1332 | Elementary Sanskrit II&
#An introduction to the essentials of Sanskrit grammar. Designed to enable the student to read classical and epic Sanskrit as soon as possible.#
&CLASS 1451 | Ancient Egyptian II: Introduction to Middle Egyptian Hieroglyphs&
#A continuation of HIERO 1450. For over two thousand years, from the Middle Kingdom (ca. 2100 BCE) into the Roman era, Egyptian monuments were inscribed with hieroglyphs of the Middle Egyptian writing system. Students will continue to learn the complete Middle Egyptian verbal system and continue to enrich their Egyptian vocabulary. We will also continue translating complete literary and religious texts, including the fantastic tale of a sailor's maritime misadventures and divine encounters ("The Shipwrecked Sailor") and a hymn in honor of the sun god ("The Litany of Re").#
&CLASS 1531 | FWS: Greek Myth&
#This course will focus on the stories about the gods and heroes of the Greeks as they appear in ancient literature and art. We will examine the relationship between myths and the cultural, religious, and political conditions of the society in which they took shape. Beginning with theories of myth and proceeding to the analysis of individual stories and cycles, the material will serve as a vehicle for improving your written communication skills. Assignments include preparatory writing and essays focusing on readings and discussions in class.#
&CLASS 1552 | FWS: Image and Text in Antiquity&
#Can we translate works of art into words? Can letters on the page be visually captivating even before we decipher their meaning? This course examines how ancient authors and artists conceived of the relationship between texts and images. Class assignments concern the descriptions of finely crafted objects in Greek and Latin literature and their rhetorical effects. Artifacts include the cosmic shield of Achilles in Homer's Iliad, the radiant gems of Posidippus's epigrams, and the divine tapestries of Ovid's Metamorphoses. Likewise, ancient artists' experimentation with images and texts in their works will contextualize our exploration. The study of Greco-Roman rhetorical devices will be a guide as we develop strategies for crafting persuasive arguments in our writing practices.#
&CLASS 1554 | FWS: Reading the Classical Body&
#What does it mean to be embodied? In this course, we explore the diverse ways in which Greek and Roman artists and authors crafted ideas about the human body and embodied experience in their arts and letters. Shifting attitudes conveyed in poetic, philosophical, political, theological, and medical works provide the basis for class readings and assignments. How were ancient understandings of the body tied to issues of age, gender, sex, race, and class? We will address the connections between human and divine figures, as well as the living and the dead. By being sensitive to the cultural contexts of embodiment, we will attune ourselves to the particularities of our own authorial identities.#
&CLASS 1699 | English Words: Histories and Mysteries&
#Where do the words we use come from? This course examines the history and structure of the English vocabulary from its distant Indo-European roots to the latest in technical jargon and slang. Topics include formal and semantic change, taboo and euphemism, borrowing, new words from old, "learned" English loans from Greek and Latin, slang, and society.#
&CLASS 1812 | Classics and Comics&
#What can comics, video games, and other contemporary media tell us about the ancient world? In this course, we'll explore comics and graphic novels including Shanower's "Age of Bronze," Frank Miller's "300," and Kieron Gillen's retaliatory "Three," as well as video games like "Assassin's Creed Odyssey" and "Hades" that immerse players in the visual culture of the ancient world. We will analyze the techniques of graphical storytelling and use them to interpret both modern visual narratives and ancient visual evidence including the Parthenon frieze and the Pergamum altar. No prior knowledge of the ancient world is required.#
&CLASS 2352 | Intermediate Sanskrit II&
#Readings from Sanskrit dramas and literary commentary.#
&CLASS 2650 | The Art of Humor in Greece and Rome&
#In this course we explore the art of comedy and humor in ancient Greece and Rome, with all readings in English. We begin with the Greek stage comedies of Aristophanes and Menander, and a "satyr play" by Euripides. We then proceed to the musical adaptations of those comedies by the Roman playwrights Plautus and Terence. After that, we examine "epigram" and the classical art of telling jokes for social influence and political power. We will investigate philosophers' speculations on the nature of laughter alongside notable examples of humor in criminal trials and election speeches. Finally, we will read the five surviving joke books from antiquity (Cicero, Quintilian, Macrobius, Plutarch, and the Philogelos), and students will be given a chance to master the ancient art of telling a joke themselves. Special attention will be given to the censorship of humor through the ages.#
&CLASS 2652 | Ancient Greek Drama&
#This course introduces students to ancient Greek drama, with a particular focus on the genre of tragedy and its relation to the cultural, political, and performance context of Athens in the 5th century BC. Students will read plays by Aeschylus, Sophocles, and Euripides in English translation and explore how they address key themes such as gender, racialization, slavery, war, mourning, trauma, empathy, and justice. Students will also study how contemporary artists, writers, and communities have adapted and restaged Greek drama, transforming and animating these ancient scripts across various media (theater, film, literature, etc.) to speak to complex and urgent social issues today (e.g., state/institutional violence; sexual violence; racism and xenophobia; queer bodies and desires; mental health; disability and caregiving).#
&CLASS 2688 | Cleopatra's Egypt: Tradition and Transformation&
#Following the conquests of Alexander, the ancient civilization of Egypt came under Greek rule. This period is best known for its famous queen Cleopatra, the last independent ruler of ancient Egypt. But even before Cleopatra's life and death, the Egypt that she governed was a fascinating place – and a rich case study in cultural interactions under ancient imperialism. This course explores life in Egypt under Greek rule, during the three centuries known as the Ptolemaic period (named after Cleopatra's family, the Ptolemaic dynasty). We will examine the history and culture of Ptolemaic Egypt, an empire at the crossroads of Africa, the Near East, and the Mediterranean. We will explore the experiences of Egyptians, Greeks, and others living in this multi-cultural, multi-ethnic, and multi-linguistic society. Finally, we will investigate the ways that Ptolemaic Egypt can shed light on modern experiences of imperialism, colonialism, and globalization.#
&CLASS 2689 | Roman History&
#This course offers an introduction to the history of the Roman empire, from the prehistoric settlements on the site of Rome to the fall of the Western empire in the fifth century and its revival in the East with Byzantium. Lectures will provide a narrative and interpretations of major issues, including: empire building, cultural unity and diversity, religious transformations, changing relations between state and society. Discussion section will be the opportunity to engage with important texts, ancient and modern, about Rome.#
&CLASS 2729 | Climate, Archaeology and History&
#An introduction to the story of how human history from the earliest times through to the recent period interrelates with changing climate conditions on Earth. The course explores the whole expanse of human history, but concentrates on the most recent 15,000 years through to the Little Ice Age (14th-19th centuries AD). Evidence from science, archaeology and history are brought together to assess how climate has shaped the human story.#
&CLASS 3391 | Independent Study in Sanskrit, Undergraduate Level&
#To be taken only in exceptional circumstances. Must be arranged by the student with his or her advisor and the faculty member who has agreed to direct the study. To be approved by the DUS.#
&CLASS 3396 | Advanced Sanskrit II&
#Selected readings in Sanskrit literary and philosophical texts.#
&CLASS 3669 | Plato&
#We will study several of Plato's major dialogues, including the Apology, the Meno, Phaedo, and Republic. Topics include knowledge and reality, morality and happiness, and the nature of the soul.#
&CLASS 3686 | Independent Study in Classical Civilization, Undergraduate Level&
#May be taken upon completion of one semester of work at the 3000-level. To be taken only in exceptional circumstances. Must be arranged by the student with their advisor and the faculty member who has agreed to direct the study. To be approved by the DUS.#
&CLASS 3802 | Race and Ethnicity in the Ancient World&
#We will consider two basic questions: did the ancient Greeks and Romans have a concept of race or racial identity? If not, what were the dominant collective identities they used to classify themselves and others? We will explore the causes and conditions that gave rise to collective identities that can be described as ethnic and (in some cases) possibly as 'racial' and how these identities worked in their given cultural and political contexts. We will start with Greek identity in the 6th and 5th centuries BCE, then moving to Macedonian identity and the conquests of Alexander the Great, and finally, to the Roman world, where we will explore the question of race and ethnicity within the context of inclusive citizenship. In each of these cultural contexts, we will briefly focus on slavery, examining whether slave identity was at all racialized.#
&CLASS 4662 | Topics in Ancient Philosophy&
#Advanced discussion of topics in ancient philosophy. Topics vary by instructors.#
&CLASS 4722 | Honors: Senior Essay II&
#See "Honors" under Classics front matter.#
&CLASS 4803 | What Is Classics? Towards a Critical Disciplinary History&
#Within the long roiling and much heralded 'crises of the humanities', Classics is experiencing a contemporary crisis of its own. These queries are not least shaped around the disciplines continuing cultural relevance and uneven enrollments, but also in its relationships with white supremacy—relationships of complicity as much as co-option. That Classics is in crisis, however, is not a new phenomenon. In this course, we trace queries and fractures of disciplinary method, scope, objects and epistemologies through the history of this thing we have come to know as "Classics".#
&CLASS 6754 | Byzantine Archaeology&
#A seminar on the archaeology of the Byzantine Empire, from the late Roman through to the early modern periods. Topics to be covered include: long-term changes in settlement patterns and urban development; the material traces of state and monastic control over productive landscapes; the idea of the border and the nature of its defense; and the fraught relationship between "Byzantine" and "classical" archaeologies.#
&CLASS 7173 | Topics in Ancient Philosophy&
#Advanced discussion of topics in ancient philosophy. Topics vary by instructors.#
&CLASS 7345 | Graduate TA Training&
#Pedagogical instruction and course coordination. Requirement for all graduate student teachers of LATIN 1201-LATIN 1202 and first-year writing seminars.#
&CLASS 7727 | Climate, Archaeology and History&
#An introduction to the story of how human history from the earliest times through to the recent period interrelates with changing climate conditions on Earth. The course explores the whole expanse of human history, but concentrates on the most recent 15,000 years through to the Little Ice Age (14th-19th centuries AD). Evidence from science, archaeology and history are brought together to assess how climate has shaped the human story.#
&CLASS 7770 | The Aegean and East Mediterranean Bronze Age c. 3000-1000 BCE&
#An exploration of the archaeology and art of the Aegean region and of its neighbors during the Bronze Age, ca. 3000-1000 BCE: the origins and precursors of the Classical World. The course will investigate the emergence of the first complex societies in the Aegean region in the third millennium BCE, and then the development and story of the Minoan and Mycenaean worlds and their neighbors in the second millennium BCE. Topics will include: the Early Bronze Age and the first complex societies in the Aegean (Cyclades, Crete, Greece, Anatolia); the collapse and reorientation around 2200BCE and links with climate change; the first palace civilization of (Minoan) Crete; the Santorini (Thera) volcanic eruption and its historical impact in the Aegean and eastern Mediterranean; the rise of the Mycenaean Greek palaces and the shift into proto-history; the development of an international east Mediterranean trade system; Ahhiyawa and the Hittites; the 'Trojan War'; and the collapse of the Late Bronze Age societies and links with climate change.#
&CLASS 7803 | What Is Classics? Towards a Critical Disciplinary History&
#Within the long roiling and much heralded 'crises of the humanities', Classics is experiencing a contemporary crisis of its own. These queries are not least shaped around the disciplines continuing cultural relevance and uneven enrollments, but also in its relationships with white supremacy—relationships of complicity as much as co-option. That Classics is in crisis, however, is not a new phenomenon. In this course, we trace queries and fractures of disciplinary method, scope, objects and epistemologies through the history of this thing we have come to know as "Classics".#
&CLASS 7960 | Independent Study in Classical Studies&
#Independent course in topics not covered in regularly scheduled courses. Students select a topic in consultation with the faculty member who has agreed to supervise the course work.#


$COGST | Cognitive Science$
&COGST 1105 | Introduction to Linguistics&
#Overview of the science of language, especially its theoretical underpinnings, methods, and major findings. Areas covered include: the relation between sound and meaning in human languages, social variation in language, language change over time, universals of language, and the mental representation of linguistic knowledge. Students are introduced to a wide variety of language phenomena, drawn not only from languages resembling English, but also from many that appear to be quite unlike English, such as those native to the Americas, Africa, Asia, Australia, and the South Pacific.#
&COGST 1212 | Music on the Brain&
#This course is for anyone who listens to music or plays music and wonders what's happening in your brain that makes you feel the way you do. Starting with the music each of you knows and loves—the soundtrack to your life—we'll tackle questions like: What is the relationship between speech and music? Do animals have music, too? How does the brain process aspects of music, including rhythm, melody, harmony, and form? Why does some music trigger an emotional response? What does it mean to say that music is an embodied behavioral act? What is the relationship between music and memory? Through lectures, discussions, experiments, compositions, recording technologies, student presentations/performances and writing assignments we'll explore how/why you've chosen the particular tunes on the soundtrack of your life, and how your brain processes musical thoughts and experiences.#
&COGST 2090 | Developmental Psychology&
#One of four introductory courses in cognition and perception. A comprehensive introduction to current thinking and research in developmental psychology that approaches topics from both psychobiological and cognitive perspectives. We will use a comparative approach to assess principles of development change. The course focuses on the development of perception, action, cognition, language, and social understanding in infancy and early childhood.#
&COGST 2150 | Psychology of Language&
#Provides an introduction to the psychology of language. The purpose of the course is to introduce students to the scientific study of psycholinguistic phenomena. Covers a broad range of topics from psycholinguistics, including the origin of language, the different components of language (phonology, morphology, syntax, and semantics), processes involved in reading, computational modeling of language processes, the acquisition of language (both under normal and special circumstances), and the brain bases of language.#
&COGST 2310 | Introduction to Deductive Logic&
#Covers sentential languages, the truth-functional connectives, and their logic; first-order languages, the quantifiers "every" and "some," and their logic.#
&COGST 2350 | How the Brain Makes the Mind&
#There is no getting away from the brain. Everything a person does, creates, thinks, feels, believes, and experiences (including making sense of course descriptions!) depends on it. But, how? How could a three pound mass of cells and the body in which it exists "see," "decide," or "remember," let alone navigate a busy city, play soccer, or write poetry? This course will provide students with the foundational concepts and tools they will need to begin to address these questions, providing insight into how modern cognitive neuroscientists understand the brain, how it works, and how the mind emerges from all of this. Students will learn core principles of modern human cognitive neuroscience (e.g., brain structure versus function, connectivity, reuse) and their application to cognition (e.g., action, perception, attention, memory, emotion, language, cognitive control, and consciousness). Topics in neuroanatomy, human neuroscience methods, and neurological conditions will also be covered.#
&COGST 2415 | Introduction to Moral Psychology&
#This course is an introduction to the moral mind from philosophical and psychological perspectives. Many traditional philosophical problems about morality are being illuminated by current work in cognitive science. In this course, we will look at several of these problems. In each case, we will begin with a presentation of the philosophical problems, and we will proceed to examine recent empirical work on the topic. A wide range of topics will be covered, including moral judgment, agency, the self, and punishment.#
&COGST 3140 | Computational Psychology&
#This course states and motivates the observation that cognition is fundamentally a computational process and explores the implications of this idea. Students are introduced to a variety of conceptual tools for thinking about cognitive information processing, including statistical learning from experience and the use of patterns distilled from past experience in guiding future actions. They learn to apply these tools to gain understanding of perception, memory, motor control, language, action planning, problem solving, decision making, reasoning, intelligence, and creativity.#
&COGST 3302 | Introduction to Phonetics and Phonology&
#This course is an introduction to both phonetics (the study of the physical properties of the sounds of human language) and phonology (the organization and patterning of those sounds). The first part of the course focuses on the main areas of phonetics: articulation, acoustics, and perception. Students acquire basic skills, such as production and perception of speech sounds, transcription using the International Phonetic Alphabet, and instrumental analysis of speech. In the second part of the course students are introduced to key concepts in phonology, including rules, representations, and analysis of sound patterns. Throughout the course aspects of the sound systems of a wide range of world languages are studied.#
&COGST 3420 | Human Perception: Application to Computer Graphics, Art, and Visual Display&
#Our present technology allows us to transmit and display information through a variety of media. To make the most of these media channels, it is important to consider the limitations and abilities of the human observer. The course considers a number of applied aspects of human perception with an emphasis on the display of visual information. Topics include "three-dimensional" display systems, color theory, spatial and temporal limitations of the visual systems, attempts at subliminal communication, and "visual" effects in film and television.#
&COGST 4230 | Navigation, Memory, and Context: What Does the Hippocampus Do?&
#Although the hippocampus has been the subject of intense scrutiny for nearly 50 years, there remains considerable disagreement about functional contributions the hippocampus makes to learning and memory process. This course will examine the diverse functions attributed to the hippocampus with an eye toward integrating the differing viewpoints in the literature. After a brief historical overview, students will discuss cutting-edge literature on the hippocampal role in spatial navigation, learning, and memory, and context processing.#
&COGST 4240 | Computational Linguistics I&
#Computational models of natural languages. Topics are drawn from: tree syntax and context free grammar, finite state generative morpho-phonology, feature structure grammars, logical semantics, tabular parsing, Hidden Markov models, categorial and minimalist grammars, text corpora, information-theoretic sentence processing, discourse relations, and pronominal coreference.#
&COGST 4310 | Topics in Cognitive Science&
#A seminar series examining current and classical ideas in human sciences and the humanities.  Themes vary from semester to semester.#
&COGST 4350 | Mind, Self, and Emotion&
#No description available.#
&COGST 4425 | Pragmatics&
#What is the relationship between what words mean and how they are used? What is part of the grammar and what is a result of general reasoning? Pragmatics is often thought of as the study of how meaning depends on the context of utterance. However, it can be difficult to draw a line between pragmatics and semantics. In this course, we will investigate various topics that walk this line, including varieties of linguistic inference (including entailment and implicature), the pragmatics and compositional semantics of presupposition, anaphora and dynamic semantics, the semantics and pragmatics of focus, indexicals, and speech acts.#
&COGST 4477 | Experimental Methods in Language Sciences&
#The class offers an introduction to the experimental methods and data analysis techniques commonly used in linguistics. Topics covered in the course will include basics of experimental design and statistical inference for hypothesis testing, as well as practical training on a variety of experimental paradigms used in syntax and semantics/pragmatics.#
&COGST 4700 | Undergraduate Research in Cognitive Science&
#Experience in planning, conducting, and reporting independent laboratory, field, and/or library research in an interdisciplinary area relevant to Cognitive Science.#
&COGST 4710 | Cognitive Science Research Workshop&
#Provides a research workshop in which undergraduate students who are engaged in research in a particular area relevant to cognitive science can meet across disciplines to learn and practice the essentials of research using interdisciplinary approaches. In this workshop, students critique and discuss the existing literature in a field of inquiry, individual students present their research designs, methods, and results from their independent research studies, debate the interpretation of their research results, and participate in the generation of new research hypotheses and designs, in a peer group of other undergraduate students involved in related research.#
&COGST 4720 | Current Research in Emotion, Cognition, and Brain&
#The course will cover advanced topics in research on the emotions from central neural and peripheral physiological perspectives, with an emphasis with how emotions shape different aspects of cognition and behavior.#
&COGST 4740 | Natural Language Processing&
#This course constitutes an introduction to natural language processing (NLP), the goal of which is to enable computers to use human languages as input, output, or both. NLP is at the heart of many of today's most exciting technological achievements, including machine translation, question answering and automatic conversational assistants. The course will introduce core problems and methodologies in NLP, including machine learning, problem design, and evaluation methods.#
&COGST 6101 | Cognitive Science Proseminar&
#This seminar surveys the study of how the mind/brain works, drawing primarily from six disciplines: philosophy, psychology, developmental science, neuroscience, linguistics, and computer science. It consists of lectures and discussions of readings by Cornell cognitive science faculty.#
&COGST 6140 | Computational Psychology&
#This course states and motivates the observation that cognition is fundamentally a computational process and explores the implications of this idea. Students are introduced to a variety of conceptual tools for thinking about cognitive information processing, including statistical learning from experience and the use of patterns distilled from past experience in guiding future actions. They learn to apply these tools to gain understanding of perception, memory, motor control, language, action planning, problem solving, decision making, reasoning, intelligence, and creativity.#
&COGST 6425 | Pragmatics&
#What is the relationship between what words mean and how they are used?  What is part of the grammar and what is a result of general reasoning?  Pragmatics is often thought of as the study of how meaning depends on the context of utterance.  However, it can be difficult to draw a line between pragmatics and semantics.  In this course, we will investigate various topics that walk this line, including varieties of linguistic inference including entailment, presupposition, and implicature), anaphora, indexicals, and speech acts.#
&COGST 6477 | Experimental Methods in Language Sciences&
#The class offers an introduction to the experimental methods and data analysis techniques commonly used in linguistics. Topics covered in the course will include basics of experimental design and statistical inference for hypothesis testing, as well as practical training on a variety of experimental paradigms used in syntax and semantics/pragmatics.#
&COGST 7090 | Developmental Psychology&
#One of four introductory courses in cognition and perception. A comprehensive introduction to current thinking and research in developmental psychology that approaches problems from both psychobiological and cognitive perspectives. We will use a comparative approach to assess principles of development change. The course focuses on the development of perception, action, cognition, language, and social understanding in infancy and early childhood.#


$COLLS | College Scholar Program$
&COLLS 3001 | College Scholar Seminar&
#The seminar is an interdisciplinary research methods course that will teach College Scholar students methods for finding, evaluating, using, and presenting both qualitative and quantitative data. In addition to learning specific techniques, we will examine disciplinary differences in the way fields define subjects, design arguments, and ascertain truth. We will also develop skills for presenting complex ideas in written research proposals and oral presentations.#
&COLLS 3970 | Independent Study - Senior Project&
#Topic and credit hours as arranged between faculty and student. A copy of the proposal must be sent to the College Scholar Program at as_csp@cornell.edu.#
&COLLS 4990 | Honors Research I&
#COLLS 4990 is the first part of the year-long thesis course in the College Scholar Program. Students submit their completed proposals to as_csp@cornell.edu and to their honors thesis committee by the add deadline in their penultimate semester. COLLS 4990 is added to the students' schedules once the thesis proposed has been approved.#
&COLLS 4991 | Honors Research II&
#COLLS 4991 is the second part of the year-long honors thesis course in the College Scholar Program. All students enrolled in COLLS 4991 present their findings at an event in the spring (exact dates TBD).#


$COML | Comparative Literature$
&COML 1104 | FWS: Reading Films&
#We live in an image-saturated world. How do we make sense of the moving image and its powerful roles in shaping culture and mediating our relationship with the world? This course will equip students with the tools to understand and decipher film language. It introduces and interrogates the basic notions, technologies, terminologies, and theories of film analysis. We will study visual and compositional elements, like mise-en-scène, cinematography, editing, and sound. Films we discuss will include different geographies, genres, major directors, schools, and film movements. Through writing, students will learn to analyze films with accurate, medium-specific vocabulary, develop informed and nuanced arguments, and critically reflect on the position of the viewer.#
&COML 1105 | FWS: Books with Big Ideas&
#What do Frankenstein and Things Fall Apart have in common? What lies behind the fantastical stories of Aladdin? Do we have to like Garcia Márquez and Shakespeare? These texts and authors re-imagine the human experience at its most intriguing level. In this course, we will discuss human rights, intimacy, joy, isolation, and other controversies at the heart of these books. Throughout the semester, students will learn how to articulate an informed and nuanced position on these issues via formal practices in analytical readings, drafting, peer review, and self-editing. Actual selection of readings may vary depending on the instructor's focus.#
&COML 1106 | FWS: Robots&
#In 2015, Japan's SoftBank Robotics Corporation announced the world's first robot with feelings. Many people were excited, many more disturbed. If robots are simply, as the dictionary suggests, machines "designed to function in the place of a living agent," then what is so disturbing about them? Since robots are designed to replace human labor (first economic, and now also emotional), do they represent a threat as much as they do an aid? What happens when robots exceed their purpose, and become more humanlike? How do robots read, write, and feel? How do the activities of coding and writing, or decoding and reading differ? Students will be equipped with the vocabulary and writing strategies to rigorously analyze, compare, and debate the meaning of robots in the human imagination from different epochs, countries, languages, and media. In doing so, they will write in a variety of registers about works such as the play R.U.R. by Karel Čapek, who invented the term "robot". Other materials may include philosophical texts, fiction, videogames, films, graphic novels, and hip-hop concept albums.#
&COML 1139 | FWS: The Art of Criticism&
#In this course, we will read works of literary, cultural, music, art, and film criticism aimed at a popular audience, from a range of magazines and other publications. We will discuss what makes a successful work of criticism, why we read criticism, and how criticism has changed over time. Readings will include Virginia Woolf, George Orwell, James Baldwin, and Joan Didion. Writing assignments will include analysis of works of criticism and then criticism in practice, as you apply what we have learned and write and revise critical essays on topics of your choice.#
&COML 2000 | Introduction to Visual Studies&
#This course provides an introduction to modes of vision and the historical impact of visual images, visual structures, and visual space on culture, communication, and politics. It examines all aspects of culture that communicate through visual means, including 20th-century visual technologies—photography, cinema, video, etc., and their historical corollaries. The production and consumption of images, objects, and events is studied in diverse cultures. Students develop the critical skills necessary to appreciate how the approaches that define visual studies complicate traditional models of defining and analyzing art objects.#
&COML 2271 | Reading for the End of Time&
#This course will explore how in the body of world literature humans have construed, narrated, imagined the end of time and of the world and sometimes its new beginning.  Spanning from ancient epic and origin myths through nineteenth century novels and colonial narratives to contemporary science fiction, we will inquire, through our reading: what is a world?  How does the labor of the imagination construct a world or the world and deconstruct or undo worlds?  Readings will range widely across time and world space (with authors such as Hesiod, Balzac, Marquez, Murakami, Alexievich, Bacigalupi) and will include attention to contemporary theories of world literature.#
&COML 2703 | Thinking Media&
#For description, see GERST 2703.#
&COML 2750 | Introduction to Humanities&
#These seminars offer an introduction to the humanities by exploring historical, cultural, social, and political themes. Students will explore themes in critical dialogue with a range of texts and media drawn from the arts, humanities, and/or humanistic social sciences. Guest speakers, including Cornell faculty and Society for the Humanities Fellows, will present from different disciplines and points of view. Students will make field trips to relevant local sites and visit Cornell special collections and archives. Students enrolled in these seminars will have the opportunity to participate in additional programming related to the annual focus theme of Cornell's Society for the Humanities and the Humanities Scholars Program for undergraduate humanities research.#
&COML 3017 | Written on the Body&
#Images of tattooed, inscribed, and marked bodies abound in popular media, from television series to blogs, from performance art to popular literature. When the body becomes a canvas or text, this raises crucial questions about the definition and the reading of individual bodies and their ties to different categories, such as gender, race, culture, and society. This course we will pay particular attention to the shifting meanings of body modification in different cultural, theoretical, and historical contexts. Course material will include texts, films, and artwork by Michel de Certeau, Jacques Derrida, Georges Didi-Huberman, Lalla Essaydi, Peter Greenaway, Zhang Huan, Franz Kafka, Claude Lévi-Strauss, Mirta Kupferminc, Christopher Nolan, Renata Salecl, Hortense Spillers, Qiu Zhijie, and others, as well as television series, internet forums, and other popular culture formats.#
&COML 3021 | Literary Theory on the Edge&
#This course examines a range of exciting and provocative 20th- and 21st- century theoretical paradigms for thinking about literature, language and culture. These approaches provide differing, though often overlapping, entryways into theoretical analysis, including structuralism and post-structuralism, translation studies, Black studies, Afro-Diasporic Studies, postcolonial and decolonial studies, performance studies, media theory and cinema/media studies, the digital humanities, psychoanalysis and trauma theory, gender studies and queer studies, studies of the Anthropocene/environmental studies, and animal studies. Occasional invited guests, lectures and class discussions will provide students with a facility for close textual analysis, a knowledge of major currents of thought in the humanities, and an appreciation for the uniqueness and complexity of language and media.#
&COML 3261 | Global Cinema and Media&
#Global Cinema and Media offers a survey of international film and media history from the late nineteenth century to today. Through a focus on key films and significant epochs, the course traces the evolution of form, style and genre, the medium's changing technologies and business models, as well as film and media's relation to broader cultural, social and political contexts. Screenings of narrative, documentary and experimental films and video will be accompanied by readings in film and media theory and history.#
&COML 3264 | Poetics, Economies, Ecologies&
#How have income inequality and climate change, two of the most urgent issues of our time, come to shape the contemporary imagination? What might a poetics of economies or ecologies, or an economical or ecological poetics, look like? What metaphors and semantic fields, networks, and webs of discursive and rhetorical choices, inform discourses of economy and ecology? How might economical and ecological tropes help us rethink poetics, and vice-versa? What are their protocols and conventions, constraints and regulations, possibilities and limitations? What tensions, and what "imaginary solutions to real problems," do we find among them? Ranging across a variety of national and international contexts, this course will explore how such concerns figure in contemporary non-fiction, poetry, fiction, film, and electronic and digital media.#
&COML 3336 | Border Environments&
#This course focuses on a place and a concept where two of the most urgent issues of our times - migration and environmental degradation - converge, collide, and shape each other. It examines borders not as abstract lines on the map, but as dynamic hubs that connect human societies, politics, and cultures with the natural and built environments that we inhabit and transform. Through scholarly and creative work from an array of borders around the world, we will develop new theoretical approaches and methodological toolkits for rethinking and re-visioning borders in an era of climate change, toxic pollution, and mass extinction. The course encourages multi- and inter-disciplinary projects from students and will feature guests from diverse areas, disciplines, and practices.#
&COML 3389 | The Revolutionary as Author: Autobiography and Political Myth&
#In this course, we will read some of the most influential examples of a genre at the intersection of literature and history: the memoir of the revolutionary. Along the way, we will consider some of the fictional works (e.g. by Turgenev, Dostoevsky) that have been important in this nonfictional tradition, as well as poetry produced by the revolutionary currents we discuss. As we study the autobiographies of Russian, American, and German leftist political figures like Piotr Kropotkin, Emma Goldman, Ernst Toller, and Angela Davis, we will consider the literary methods these writers use to intertwine their own life stories with political history. How is life-writing a form of revolutionary self-fashioning? How have literary movements intersected with revolutionary writings? With special attention to the questions of gender, ethnicity, and race.#
&COML 3800 | Poetry and Poetics of the Americas&
#As globalization draws the Americas ever closer together, reshaping our sense of a common and uncommon American culture, what claims might be made for a distinctive, diverse poetry and poetics of the Americas? How might we characterize its dominant forms and alternative practices? What shared influences, affiliations, concerns and approaches might we find and what convergences and differences emerge? Ranging across North and South America, Central America and the Caribbean, this course will place in conversation such figures as Poe, Pound, Stein, Williams, Neruda, Vallejo, Borges, Parra, Bolaño, Césaire, Nourbese Philip, Hong, Long Soldier, Rankine, Lamar, Kaminsky, and Xie.#
&COML 3811 | Theory and Practice of Translation&
#The modern field of translation studies overlaps most closely with literary studies, but it intersects also with fields such as linguistics and politics.  The intense work in translation studies in the last half century follows a long history of thinking about translation.  The activity of translation has been viewed as betrayal, as an inferior form of literary production, as extending the life of the literary work, as a creative process equal to the original.  In this course we will examine various approaches to the translation of literary texts, both prose and verse.  We will read texts by theorists and by translators.  We will also read and analyze translations of literary works, with a focus on classics of Russian literature.  Practical translation work will illuminate theoretical readings.  The modern field of translation studies overlaps most closely with literary studies, but it intersects also with fields such as linguistics and politics.  The intense work in translation studies in the last few decades follows a long history of thinking about translation.  The activity of translation has been viewed over many centuries as betrayal, as an inferior form of literary production, as extending the life of the literary work, as a creative process equal to the original.  In this course we will examine various approaches to the translation of literary texts, both prose and verse.  We will read texts by theorists and by translators, possibly including Cicero, Schleiermacher, Nabokov, Jakobson, Nida, Toury, Appiah, Derrida, Venuti, Bassnett, and others.  We will also read and analyze translations of literary works, with a focus on classics of Russian literature.  Practical translation work will illuminate theoretical readings.#
&COML 3977 | Body Politics in African Literature, Cinema, and New Media&
#This course examines how writers, filmmakers, and content creators from Africa engage with and revise public images of bodies—specifically pleasure, queerness, sex strikes, etc. Our inquiry also surveys theorists' commitment to highlighting forms of self-fashioning and agency/responsibility in addition to troubling problematic tropes of pathologization and excess. These topical explorations will be achieved through analyses of storytelling, digitality, the aestheticization of violence, and social change theories. Through contemporary films, digital platforms, novels, and essays, we will reflect on the precarious yet empowering nature of the body. Public speaking (class discussions, student presentations) and deep attention to analysis and writing (reaction papers, an abstract, an annotated bibliography, and a final paper) will help you refine your understanding of body politics.This course examines how writers, filmmakers, and content creators from Africa engage with and revise public images of bodies—specifically pleasure, queerness, sex strikes, etc. Our inquiry also surveys theorists' commitment to highlighting forms of self-fashioning and agency/responsibility in addition to troubling problematic tropes of pathologization and excess. These topical explorations will be achieved through analyses of storytelling, digitality, the aestheticization of violence, and social change theories. Through contemporary films, digital platforms, novels, and essays, we will reflect on the precarious yet empowering nature of the body. Public speaking (class discussions, student presentations) and deep attention to analysis and writing (reaction papers, an abstract, an annotated bibliography, and a final paper) will help you refine your understanding of body politics.#
&COML 4103 | Nabokov, Naturally&
#Vladimir Nabokov's legacy at Cornell is not limited to the world-famous literary works he produced here. The university's natural and built environments also provided powerful material for his lifelong pursuit of butterflies within their geo- and biodiverse ecosystems. In this project-oriented course on the writer-lepidopterist, we will read his words, look at his drawings, study his collections of insects and plants, and develop our own modes of engaging with place and planet through a lively science-art practice.#
&COML 4200 | Independent Study&
#COML 4190 and COML 4200 may be taken independently of each other. Undergraduate student and faculty advisor to determine course of study and credit hours.#
&COML 4243 | Psychoanalysis and Politics&
#This seminar will explore some of the most important psychoanalytic approaches to politics and collective life. from Sigmund Freud's Mass Psychology and the Analysis of the Ego to works by Le Bon, Reich, Althusser, Fanon, Lacan, Safouan, Zizek and Dolar. Questions explored will include the relationship between mass and individual psychology; the role of unconscious identification (ideal ego, superego) in group formation, nationalism, xenophobia and racism; fantasy and politics; and the people considered as a subject and political actor. Events and contexts discussed will range from the French Revolution to the Nazi Reich to colonialization and contemporary authoritarianisms. Works of political theory by Rousseau, Kant, Marx, Arendt, Balibar and Ranciere will be put in dialogue with psychoanalytic readings.#
&COML 4334 | Caribbean Worlds: Landscape, Labor and Climate Imaginaries&
#The seminar will explore relations between the tangible effects of climate on urban, infrastructural, and ecological landscapes in the Caribbean and lived experiences of climate as mediated through literature, film, and other expressive forms. Topics will range from historical accounts of climate as 'catastrophe' – the effects of hurricanes, volcanoes, and earthquakes– to colonial histories of coerced labor, to climate as a more general horizon in the constitution of Caribbean worlds. The seminar draws on the work of anthropologist Anna Tsing, interpreting the industrialized-urbanized ecological territory in terms of "capitalist ruination" which, nonetheless, holds possibilities for other modes of environmentality, as the hazards effected by climate change fundamentally disrupt and transform the very urbanity constituted through colonial and later resource extractive appropriations.#
&COML 4372 | Captive Theory&
#We experience our world (and the histories of our world) increasingly as a conglomerate of spaces of and for containment. These enclosed spaces are multiple, and their strategies of who and how they imprison are profoundly unequal. How does theory, or rather, different theoretical approaches, deal with structures and experiences of captivity? What captive figures are being used, how are they theorized, and what ways of escaping, opening up, or destroying spaces of captivity are envisioned? In this course, we will draw on a wide range of theoretical approaches to scrutinize an array of figures of captivity, such as the camp, the prison, the campus, the closet, the hold, the enclosure, the frame, the panopticon, the trap, the globe, the screen, for a comparative assessment. We will focus on captivity and its avatars in theory but also reflect on what makes theory itself captive, even complicit in imagining and structuring our reality by way of containment.#
&COML 4380 | Imagining Utopia&
#Why is it easier to imagine the end of the world than the end of capitalism? At a time when reality appears dystopian, many are quick to dismiss utopian visions as naïve or irresponsible. In this seminar, we take on the critical and imaginative task of considering what utopias can tell us about our pasts, presents, and possible futures. We encounter two centuries of utopias in which communes have displaced the family, mutual aid has taken the place of capitalist individualism, and sexuality is no longer linked to property rights. While these speculative times and places seek to overcome capitalism, imperialism, racism, sexism, homophobia, transphobia, and the climate crisis, they remain haunted by these figures. Our treatment of utopias in theory and literature therefore includes a range of ambivalent affects and genres, from critical and ambiguous utopias to philosophical treatises and manifestos.#
&COML 4511 | The Global South Novel and World Literature&
#The driving dialectic in post-colonial studies has been the colonizer/colonized, or the Third World vs. the West. But slowly the field is letting go of this "arrested dialectic" and in its place various triangulations are emerging: e.g. transnationalism, world literature, the global novel, and global south literary studies. Starting with a walk through the emerging theoretical concepts of world/global/transnational literature, we will primarily focus on a global south reading of African literature (itself a contested term), and perennial questions around language and translation. Specifically we will look at how writers such as Chimamanda Adichie, V.S. Naipul, NoViolet Bulawayo, and MG Vassanji challenge the post-colonial discourse and how a global south reading provides an uncomfortable conversation with transnational and world literature theories and concepts.#
&COML 4628 | Post-Conflict Justice and Resolution in Africa&
#No description available.#
&COML 4825 | Literature and Science: Transfers in Poetics & Epistemology&
#Part epistemology and part experimental humanities, this seminar looks at improbable encounters between the divergent regimes of thought and knowledge expressed by "literature" and the "sciences." Our main concern is not the literary thematization of the scientific, nor is it an exploration of science fiction as a genre. Our reflexive focus is rather on the noetic and poetic transfers different modes of textuality could unfold, beyond their hiatus in terms of writing, apparatus, signification, and mental experience. Readings include scholars such as Foucault, Kuhn, Strabo, Haraway, or Hayles, and writers such as Homer, Rousseau, Shelley, or Borges. Several discrete disciplines, such as geometry, cognitive science, botany, primatology, or AI, could be analyzed. The seminar is also linked to the research activities of the Humanities Lab.#
&COML 4940 | Senior Essay&
#Times TBA individually in consultation with director of Senior Essay Colloquium. Approximately 50 pages to be written over the course of two semesters in the student's senior year under the direction of the student's advisor. An R grade is assigned on the basis of research and a preliminary draft completed in the first semester.#
&COML 6159 | Literary Theory on the Edge&
#This course examines a range of exciting and provocative 20th- and 21st- century theoretical paradigms for thinking about literature, language and culture. These approaches provide differing, though often overlapping, entryways into theoretical analysis, including structuralism and post-structuralism, translation studies, Black studies, Afro-Diasporic Studies, postcolonial and decolonial studies, performance studies, media theory and cinema/media studies, the digital humanities, psychoanalysis and trauma theory, gender studies and queer studies, studies of the Anthropocene/environmental studies, and animal studies. Occasional invited guests, lectures and class discussions will provide students with a facility for close textual analysis, a knowledge of major currents of thought in the humanities, and an appreciation for the uniqueness and complexity of language and media.#
&COML 6200 | Independent Study&
#This course gives students the opportunity to work with a selected instructor to pursue special interests or research not treated in regularly scheduled courses. After getting permission of the instructor, students should enroll online in the instructor's section. Enrolled students are required to provide the department with a course description and/or syllabus along with the instructor's approval by the end of the first week of classes.#
&COML 6303 | Queer Marxism&
#Are queer theory and Marxism truly irreconcilable? While queer studies emerged in part as a rejection of Marxism's totalizing approach and Marxists have criticized the queer emphasis on individuals, this seminar explores the potential of bringing the two fields together. We will consider how queer critiques of reproductive futurism, racial capitalism, and homonationalism can transform the legacy of Marxist theory and practice. At the same time, we will examine Marxist notions of totality, reification, and value to reenvision the scope of queer politics. After covering these key Marxist and queer theoretical concepts, the seminar will turn to transnational Marxist debates on gender and sexuality in Weimar Germany and the Soviet Union. We will conclude the seminar with a discussion of new scholarship in the emergent field of queer Marxism and a symposium with presentations by seminar participants.#
&COML 6334 | Caribbean Worlds: Landscape, Labor and Climate Imaginaries&
#The seminar will explore relations between the tangible effects of climate on urban, infrastructural, and ecological landscapes in the Caribbean and lived experiences of climate as mediated through literature, film, and other expressive forms. Topics will range from historical accounts of climate as 'catastrophe' – the effects of hurricanes, volcanoes, and earthquakes– to colonial histories of coerced labor, to climate as a more general  horizon in the constitution of Caribbean worlds. The seminar draws on the work of anthropologist Anna Tsing, interpreting the industrialized-urbanized ecological territory in terms of "capitalist ruination" which, nonetheless, holds possibilities for other modes of environmentality, as the hazards effected by climate change fundamentally disrupt and transform the very urbanity constituted through colonial and later resource extractive appropriations.#
&COML 6336 | Border Environments&
#This course focuses on a place and a concept where two of the most urgent issues of our times - migration and environmental degradation - converge, collide, and shape each other. It examines borders not as abstract lines on the map, but as dynamic hubs that connect human societies, politics, and cultures with the natural and built environments that we inhabit and transform. Through scholarly and creative work from an array of borders around the world, we will develop new theoretical approaches and methodological toolkits for rethinking and re-visioning borders in an era of climate change, toxic pollution, and mass extinction. The course encourages multi- and inter-disciplinary projects from students and will feature guests from diverse areas, disciplines, and practices.#
&COML 6372 | Captive Theory&
#We experience our world (and the histories of our world) increasingly as a conglomerate of spaces of and for containment. These enclosed spaces are multiple, and their strategies of who and how they imprison are profoundly unequal. How does theory, or rather, different theoretical approaches, deal with structures and experiences of captivity? What captive figures are being used, how are they theorized, and what ways of escaping, opening up, or destroying spaces of captivity are envisioned? In this course, we will draw on a wide range of theoretical approaches to scrutinize an array of figures of captivity, such as the camp, the prison, the campus, the closet, the hold, the enclosure, the frame, the panopticon, the trap, the globe, the screen, for a comparative assessment. We will focus on captivity and its avatars in theory but also reflect on what makes theory itself captive, even complicit in imagining and structuring our reality by way of containment.#
&COML 6490 | Marx and Contemporary Theory&
#This course is intended to familiarize graduate students with the intellectual history, background, and development of Marxist theory in relation to the contemporary literary and cultural-theoretical landscape. As the broad field through which numerous other directions in theory and research were formed, a knowledge of the Marxist tradition remains an essential backdrop to later developments – the analysis of modes of production, the sociology of labour, the politics of class formation, the developments and trends of postcolonial studies, the modern and contemporary forms of social thought, numerous currents of political thought, and so on. This course therefore fills a need for graduate students to familiarize themselves not only with the work of Marx, but also with central debates in twentieth century and postwar social theory. Rather than examine the work of major figures of the history of socialism as a political tendency, we will focus on the history of theoretical research in the Marxist tradition, with the goal of preparing students to critically apprehend the intellectual history of the principal debates, the major figures, and developments of this tradition in a broad and inclusive sense.#
&COML 6681 | Systems Theory and Asia Critique&
#The history of systems theory involves complex stories of technoscientific change and knowledge production on a global scale. In recent years, scholars have increasingly moved away from the field's predominantly North American and European focuses to study instead how systems theory's thinking of dynamic interrelations, and the related area of cybernetics research on self-organization and recursivity have developed in major Asian societies. This course first explores the epistemological foundations of systems theory before studying its major developments and historical case studies in the PRC, Taiwan, Singapore, and Malaysia. We will then examine systems theory and cybernetics' impacts on questions of technocratic governance, biopolitics, economy, gender and sexuality, and cultural and aesthetic production.#
&COML 6793 | Theory and Analysis of Narrative&
#How do narratives work? What kinds of social functions do stories perform? And how can the theory and analysis of narrative help us to grasp and shape power relations? The course will introduce the history of classical narrative theory, from Aristotle and Lessing to Todorov and Genette, but it will focus especially on new trends in queer, critical race, and feminist narrative theory, and on the uses of narrative form across disciplines and social spaces. You will be expected to write a few  short responses to the readings, practice giving a formal conference-style oral presentation, and write a final essay based on the conference paper.#
&COML 6825 | Literature and Science: Transfers in Poetics and Epistemology&
#Part epistemology and part experimental humanities, this seminar looks at improbable encounters between the divergent regimes of thought and knowledge expressed by "literature" and the "sciences." Our main concern is not the literary thematization of the scientific, nor is it an exploration of science fiction as a genre. Our reflexive focus is rather on the noetic and poetic transfers different modes of textuality could unfold, beyond their hiatus in terms of writing, apparatus, signification, and mental experience. Readings include scholars such as Foucault, Kuhn, Strabo, Haraway, or Hayles, and writers such as Homer, Rousseau, Shelley, or Borges. Several discrete disciplines, such as geometry, cognitive science, botany, primatology, or AI, could be analyzed. The seminar is also linked to the research activities of the Humanities Lab.#


$COMM | Communication$
&COMM 1105 | FWS: Action or Despair? Media Representations of Climate&
#How we think about the climate crisis is shaped by the stories that various media tell us about our relationship with nature. From films such as The Day After Tomorrow and Elizabeth Kolbert's book Field Notes From a Catastrophe to Banksy's street art and news reports, we are presented with a vision of the future filled with despair and hopelessness. Do such messages work to raise awareness and drive change, or do they instill a sense of fatalism that prevents us from taking meaningful action? In this course we will think and write about how climate change is conceptualized and communicated in a range of assignments including critical interpretation of texts, a comparative analysis paper, a book or film review and a researched argument essay.#
&COMM 1106 | FWS: Manufacturing Need: Writing About the Power of Advertising&
#From Dove soap ads to Budweiser's famous Super Bowl commercials, companies vie for our attention in order to persuade us to buy their products. But what exactly are they selling us? This course will explore the ways in which print and video advertisements craft stories that capitalize on our best intentions and deepest anxieties. By identifying design elements such as use of color, lighting, spatial arrangement, music, and dialogue, students will assess and critique how visual ads make persuasive arguments that often work against our better judgment. We will then consider ads that harness this power to deliver positive messages through PSAs and advocacy advertising. Assignments will include rhetorical and critical analysis papers, creative briefs for a mock marketing campaign, and a video essay.#
&COMM 1300 | Visual Communication&
#Introduction to visual communication theory. Examines how visual images influence our attention, perspectives, and understanding. Constructs a visual analytic language for becoming visually aware and for thinking critically about how visual images influence us. Applies this language to visual artifacts such as photos, maps, comics, and graphs and considers how we communicate visually in various contexts (e.g., with our bodies, in scenes of strong emotion, and in human-built environments).#
&COMM 2010 | Oral Communication&
#The course focuses on face-to-face, public communication, but the principles and practices addressed transfer to all purposeful communication situations. While many assume a good speech rests in how well it is delivered, students will learn that a good speech is equally dependent on the development, structure, and integrity of one's ideas. The objectives of the course are for students to speak effectively and ethically, and listen critically.#
&COMM 2200 | Media Communication&
#Introduction to media history, industry, content, policy, process, and effects.#
&COMM 2310 | Writing about Communication&
#America's employers consistently rank the ability to communicate as one of the most important career skills for hiring and advancement. This course will strengthen your ability to craft effective written communication for a variety of formats, providing you with a skill set that is applicable in professional and academic settings. Assignments explore social science and communication concepts.#
&COMM 2760 | Persuasion and Social Influence&
#Social influence and persuasion are the most basic and important functions of communication. The course covers characteristics of persuasive messages, message sources, and targets; interpersonal influence; and influence in groups. Special emphasis is given to topics in health, science, risk. This course features interactive lectures, assignments that apply principles of persuasion to real world contexts, and an applied group research project. Exams, homework assignments, and the group research project comprise the bulk of student evaluation.#
&COMM 2820 | Research Methods in Communication Studies&
#Covers social scientific methods to solve communication research problems empirically. Topics include basic principles of social scientific research, random sampling, questionnaire design, experimental research design, focus group techniques, content analysis, and basic descriptive and inferential statistics. Students also learn basic data manipulation, presentation, and analysis techniques using SPSS and EXCEL.#
&COMM 2850 | Communication, Environment, Science, and Health&
#Environmental problems, public health issues, scientific research-in each of these areas, communication plays a fundamental role. From the media to individual conversations, from technical journals to textbooks, from lab notes to the web, communication helps define scientifically based social issues and research findings. This course examines the institutional and intellectual contexts, processes, and practical constraints on communication in the sciences.#
&COMM 2990 | Directed Research Experience&
#Intended for first-year and sophomore students who are new to undergraduate research. Students may be reading scientific literature, learning research techniques, or assisting with ongoing research. The faculty supervisor determines the work goals and the form of the final report.#
&COMM 3010 | Writing and Producing the Narrative for Digital Media&
#New media communication has been blurring the traditional roles of content creator and consumer. Professional communicators—such as journalists, screenwriters, advertising executives, documentarians, and podcasters—are now expected to know how to use alternative storytelling forms to reach their audiences. They need to know how to gather information through a variety of sources such as crowdsurfing and social media; quickly and efficiently write, edit, and record audio and video. This course will explore these new delivery systems and provide guided practice of emerging communication forms. Fundamentally, this course is about writing—concisely and accurately with a clear and active voice—for new digital media with a focus on the personal narrative.#
&COMM 3040 | Writing and Editing for Magazines and Online Media&
#No description available.#
&COMM 3070 | Communicating Today: Strategic Visual Messages&
#In many career fields, the ability to translate complex issues into compelling messages is an important professional skill. This requires knowledge of information gathering, message strategy and product selection. In this course, students pick a topic of personal interest and create strategic communication using four of the following popular traditional and multimedia formats: press release, fact sheet, blog, webpage, news story, op-editorial, audio slideshow, short video. Research continues through the semester as needs for facts and colorful content are identified with each product. Students learn effective use of data, narrative, commentary, storytelling, images, and message enhancement. Students are encouraged, but not required, to select topics related to science or sustainability. Class covers communicating about hot-button issues, such as climate change. Instructor will help students identify venues for publications.#
&COMM 3100 | Communication and Decision Making in Groups&
#Provides students with a greater understanding of information sharing, persuasion, and decision development in small work groups. Through practical exercises, class discussions, and lectures, students learn firsthand how tools such as decision structuring process can affect group performance. The course is taught in an interactive hands-on format that emphasizes application of tested theory.  Due to the unique nature of this class, there is a very strict attendance policy.#
&COMM 3110 | Educational Psychology&
#Educational psychology is the application of psychological principles and concepts to cases of teaching and learning. We study behavioral, cognitive, embodied, and social-cultural perspectives on learning and thinking, and we use them in planning and reflecting on weekly fieldwork outside the classroom. In the process, we become more mindful and skilled learners ourselves and better facilitators of others' learning.#
&COMM 3200 | Technology, Behavior and Society&
#This course addresses the contemporary socio- technological challenges and debates about digital media and information technologies and their impact on society. It covers a broad spectrum of topics spanning digital technologies, social behaviors, and society. We will critically evaluate research evidence and its relevance to various social contexts and practices, diverse users and uses of social media, ethical and policy implications, trade-offs of potential solutions, and the impact of socio-technological shifts on individuals and communities. Our overarching goal is to challenge commonplace assumptions about these tools and phenomena; and to ask deeper questions about their profound impact on society.#
&COMM 3760 | Planning Communication Campaigns&
#Provides a theoretical and practical overview of the audiences, messages, and evaluation of communication campaigns. The course considers common methods of data collection (e.g. in-depth interviews, surveys) and analysis of campaign-related data sources. Specific topics include: (1) campaign goals, objectives, strategies, and tactics; (2) research design and implementation; (3) audience segmentation; (4) message construction; and (5) techniques of evaluation.#
&COMM 3800 | Television in the Digital Age&
#What is television? Drawing on key concepts in the field of television studies, this class will critically appraise the medium of television in our contemporary digital context. We will look at transformations in television production, genres, and audiences in response to new technologies and economies. By the end of the class, we will decide whether "television" is still a meaningful term and, if so, how its meanings must expand to account for our changing televisual practices. By the end of the course, you will have deepened your understanding of television and its relation to contemporary culture as well as developed a scholarly understanding of some key ideas that have structured television studies since its emergence as a field of study in the mid-1970s.#
&COMM 4292 | Sexual Identities and the Media&
#This class moves beyond a simple consideration of how lesbians, gays, bisexuals, transgender and queer people have been represented in the mainstream media. We will explore both how dominant media forms have traditionally represented LGBTQ people, as well as how LGBTQ people have seized the opportunities offered by alternative media practices and technologies to articulate passions and politics that dominant media forms have little or no investment in.#
&COMM 4350 | Communicating Leadership and Ethics&
#Leadership development in a changing technological world presents new challenges. Digital and evolving technologies allow new and creative forms of communication, collaboration and teamwork with increasingly globally located and diverse team members who may work remotely and asynchronously to coordinate information and achieve shared goals. These, along with newer forms of organizational structure and culture and require leaders who lead with integrity and a mind toward creating ethical contexts and communication practices. This course uses discussion, reflective activities, current events, case studies, online interactions, and guest speakers to develop one's own future leadership skills and to communicate leadership ethically and effectively.#
&COMM 4360 | Communication Networks and Social Capital&
#Course covers the relationship between communication networks and social capital and explores the tension between individual and group capital.#
&COMM 4380 | Communication in Virtual Worlds&
#This course deals with the psychological, social, and technical aspects of being embodied in virtual environments. During this course, students will learn how human—and non-human—entities and their actions are represented as virtual bodies. The course is organized around three areas: an overview of how a sense of embodiment is created in virtual reality, an overview of research on virtual embodiment, and current and future applications. Students will experience virtual environments, relate course topics to current events, and experiment with the creation of immersive virtual content.#
&COMM 4400 | Qualitative User Research and Design Methods&
#This upper-level course provides an in-depth understanding of and experience with advanced concepts and techniques for researching, ideating, critiquing, designing, prototyping, and evaluating interactive technologies intended for people to use and incorporate in their lives. The course focuses on advanced user research and design methods.#
&COMM 4450 | Computer-Mediated Communication&
#Focuses on reading and evaluating the theories and research methodologies used to investigate communication via computer systems. Assignments include student collaborations using electronic conferencing and other advanced communication technologies, as well as reflections on and evaluations of these collaborations in light of current theories and research findings. Topics include virtual teams, videoconferencing, and others as they emerge.#
&COMM 4660 | Public Communication of Science and Technology&
#Explores the structure, meanings, and implications of "public communication of science and technology" (PCST). Examines the contexts in which PCST occurs, looks at motivations and constraints of those involved in producing information about science for nonprofessional audiences, and analyzes the functions of PCST. Ties existing ideas about PCST to general communication research and leads to developing new knowledge about PCST.#
&COMM 4760 | Population Health Communication&
#This senior-level undergraduate seminar provides an overview of theory and research on communication related to population health, including strategic efforts to impact health behavior and structural environments that support health, media portrayals of health issues, and news coverage of health and social policy with impacts on the health and distribution of health in populations. Topics include: theories of behavior change and message effects, campaigns to improve behavioral and structural determinants of health, the intersection of health and politics, and implications of changes in media platforms for population health campaigns and research.#
&COMM 4940 | Special Topics in Communication&
#Study of topics in communication not otherwise provided by a department course and determined by the interest of faculty members and students. Please check department website for most up-to-date offerings.#
&COMM 4960 | Communication Internship&
#Students receive a structured, on-the-job learning experience under the supervision of communication professionals in cooperating organizations. A minimum of 60 hours of on-the-job work is required; the number of work hours beyond 60 is left to the discretion of the intern and the supervising company. A final project linking communication theory to practical work experience is required. All internships must be approved by the internship coordinator before the work experience segment. All COMM 4960 internship courses must adhere to the CALS guidelines at cals.cornell.edu/academics/student-research/internship. For more information about registering for credit and COMM 4960, please see https://communication.cals.cornell.edu/undergraduate-program/internship-information-0.#
&COMM 4970 | Individual Study in Communication&
#Individual study under faculty supervision. Work should concentrate on locating, assimilating, synthesizing, and reporting existing knowledge on a selected topic. Attempts to implement this knowledge in a practical application are desirable.#
&COMM 4980 | Communication Teaching Experience&
#Periodic meetings with the instructor cover realization of course objectives, evaluation of teaching methods, and student feedback. In addition to aiding with the actual instruction, each student prepares a paper on some aspect of the course.#
&COMM 4990 | Independent Research&
#Permits outstanding students to conduct laboratory or field research in communication under appropriate faculty supervision. The research should be scientific: systematic, controlled, empirical. Research goals should include description, prediction, explanation, or policy orientation and should generate new knowledge.#
&COMM 5380 | Communication in Virtual Worlds&
#This course deals with the psychological, social, and technical aspects of being embodied in virtual environments. During this course, students will learn how human—and non-human—entities and their actions are represented as virtual bodies. The course is organized around three areas: an overview of how a sense of embodiment is created in virtual reality, an overview of research on virtual embodiment, and current and future applications. Students will experience virtual environments, relate course topics to current events, and experiment with the creation of immersive virtual content.#
&COMM 5660 | Science Communication Workshop&
#This weekend workshop trains researchers in the sciences (including natural sciences, engineering, experimental social sciences, etc.) to communicate effectively with nonscientists such as policy makers, political stakeholders, the media, and the general public. Training activities may include role-play, reading/discussion, writing press releases and other outreach materials, and discussion with invited speakers.#
&COMM 6450 | Computer-Mediated Communication&
#Focuses on reading and evaluating the theories and research methodologies used to investigate communication via computer systems. Assignments include student collaborations using electronic conferencing and other advanced communication technologies, as well as reflections on and evaluations of these collaborations in light of current theories and research findings. Topics include virtual teams, videoconferencing, and others as they emerge.#
&COMM 6730 | Graduate Writing Seminar in Communication&
#No description available.#
&COMM 6810 | Advanced Communication Theory&
#Development of, and contemporary issues in, communication theory. Discusses the interaction between communication and society, social groupings, and mental processing.#
&COMM 6830 | Qualitative Research Methods in Communication&
#Reviews qualitative methods used in communication research, including interviews, focus groups, fieldwork (ethnography), and case studies. Students practice the various methods so they can learn to apply them to their own research. Students also discuss how researchers analyze qualitative data and build theories from their observations.#
&COMM 6940 | Graduate Special Topics in Communication&
#No description available.#
&COMM 7970 | Graduate Independent Study&
#Individual study concentrating on locating, assimilating, synthesizing, and reporting existing knowledge on a selected topic.#
&COMM 7990 | Graduate Research&
#Small-group or individual research based on original, empirical, data-based designs regarding topical issues in communication not otherwise examined in a graduate field course.#
&COMM 9900 | Doctoral-Level Dissertation Research&
#Dissertation research for Ph.D. candidates.#


$CRP | City & Regional Planning$
&CRP 1104 | Introduction to Global Urban Studies&
#Cities are dynamic places, centers for innovation, economic growth, and cultural creativity, and sites of inequality, injustice, and environmental degradation. They are places where people make homes, work, and mobilize politically. They are sites where governments, private actors, and civil society shape the built and socio-economic environment. The course critically examines cities and regions across the globe and in varying time periods. It introduces students to the promise, beauty, and challenges facing cities, including poverty and inequality, access to housing and infrastructure, and climate change. The course offers students an introduction to urban studies and entry points to urban focused work in other disciplines. It combines lectures, discussion, and active learning modes.#
&CRP 1109 | FWS: Cities and Regions&
#This First-Year Writing Seminar is devoted to topics related to cities and regions.#
&CRP 1200 | Introduction to Statistics for Urban Studies&
#The course will introduce students to descriptive and inferential statistics, which includes graphical tools and numerical measures, to understand places and well-being of people. Students will learn how to use statistics to illuminate our understanding of the world, evaluate policy and forecast. Students will learn how to link theories to empirical testing. Students will be introduced to excel, R and STATA and explore how these different programs are complementary. The course will expose students to a set of the most important publicly available datasets used in the urban studies content.#
&CRP 2200 | Community Engagement in the City: Qualitative Methods&
#This course focuses on qualitative methods of community engagement. The course offers students the opportunity to explore ways of knowing that center community members, knowledge, and lived experiences. Centering justice and repair, it combines theories of community engagement with an introduction to qualitative methods. Methods may include interviews, focus groups, public meetings, participant observations, and content and discourse analysis.#
&CRP 3072 | Land Use, Environmental Planning, and Urban Design Workshop&
#Land Use and Environmental Planning workshop courses focus on the forces and actions that directly affect the physical character, transformation, rehabilitation, and preservation of natural landscapes, cities, and regions. Participants provide technical assistance to communities, and have the opportunity to work with communities in resolving critical planning issues. Topics may include development of land use and natural conservation plans, community redevelopment plans, design and analysis of public spaces, and strategies for making communities more environmentally and economically sustainable.#
&CRP 3348 | Design Connect&
#Design Connect Workshop is the for-credit option for students participating in the local and regional projects solicited, reviewed and executed by the independent student organization of the same name. It provides planning and design services to upstate New York communities. Student teams engage community partners to create conceptual designs, with research and analysis, participatory visioning and design charrettes, town and master planning for public spaces. Course can be repeated for credit.#
&CRP 3430 | Affordable Housing Policy and Programs&
#Overview of federal, state, and local policies and programs to deliver affordable housing to low-income people; public housing, vouchers, inclusionary zoning, rent control, and much more. Lectures, debates, short papers, and term paper.#
&CRP 3720 | Contemporary Italy: Politics and Society&
#This course provides background on contemporary Italian politics and society, as an essential foundation to students with various disciplinary interests, from planning to architecture, from the fine arts to sociology and anthropology. This course provides a comprehensive survey of Italian society today, starting with Italy's geography and the historical forces that shaped the nation. It examines tensions between north and south, and such broad features of Italian social life as community structure, urban development, and family forms. The course also reviews selected institutional issues, such as gender, the system of education, problems of criminality and justice, economic reform, social class, religion, and politics.#
&CRP 3723 | European Cities&
#The course will focus on European Cities and the challenges they are facing in a globalized economy. It provides a knowledge framework in the fields of urban planning and policies affecting European cities in the framework of the European integration process with the aim of making students achieve a better understanding of the constituents of European cities. By mixing historical perspectives with contemporary policy and project analysis, students will have an overview of the complex notion of Urban Europe useful for future research in urbanism and urban policies.#
&CRP 3840 | Green Cities&
#Cities are centers of innovation, economic growth, social mobility, and they provide economies of scale in the provision of infrastructure and social services. However, cities are also sites of growing socio-economic inequalities and environmental problems. Do cities provide the opportunity to address environmental problems, or are they rather the source of pollution and environmental degradation? Are cities the appropriate scale at which to address environmental problems? Are these really urban issues or do cities just cluster resource use and problems so they are more visible? What role does the built or physical environment have in impacting our behavior and decision making? This course examines social, economic, cultural, political and environmental dimensions of sustainability and sustainable development in urban areas.#
&CRP 3850 | Special Topics in Planning&
#This course addresses pertinent issues relative to the subject of planning. Topics vary each semester.#
&CRP 3860 | Planning for Sustainable Transportation&
#Explores issues related to sustainable transportation policy and practice. The course (1) provides an overview of current transportation trends and their impacts; (2) reviews themes such as planning history and politics, the problems with auto-dominated systems, and key challenges to development sustainable transport systems; and (3) looks at regulatory, design, and market-based approaches to reducing automobile-dependency, introducing creative sustainable solutions from around the world.#
&CRP 3900 | City and Regional Futures: Planning Practice, Policy and Design&
#This colloquium brings domestic and international experts to Cornell to talk about research and practice aimed at shaping the future of communities and regions. It includes an array of topics that span urban policy, planning practice and research, design, and applied research on technology and society. Course can be repeated for credit.#
&CRP 4160 | Rome Workshop&
#This course focuses on the city as a system through the analysis of (1) a set of neighborhoods and (2) issues affecting these neighborhoods. We will consider the relationship of these neighborhoods and issues to the functioning of the contemporary city of Rome and the wellbeing of its residents. This course will emphasize fieldwork and experiential learning that is supported with readings, class discussions and lectures.  Field activities will take place during scheduled class times plus supplemental hours that are scheduled informally for an average of 12 hours per week, in addition to time spent on reading, writing, and the field trips.#
&CRP 4590 | Land Use Law&
#This course will evaluate the means—formal/legal and informal/non-legal—by which landowners, developers, architects, planners, neighbors, private organizations, and government may shape the use of land in the United States. Close attention will be paid to: the tension between regulation and landowners' rights; aesthetic controls and historic preservation; planning concepts; constitutional issues; environmental concerns; and the role of markets.#
&CRP 4680 | Introduction to Urban Data Science: Data, Interpretation, and Presentation&
#This course will cover tools for more spatiotemporally dynamic and granular analyses of cities through data, code, statistics, and visualization. Using open-source data and computational tools based in Python and the Jupyter Notebook environment, topics may include data cleaning, linking, and management, open data portals and APIs, exploratory and descriptive spatial data analysis, visualization, both unsupervised clustering and regionalization techniques using machine learning, and supervised techniques such as regression, classification, and model selection. Students will also learn how to design testable research questions, apply relevant data and analytical techniques, present our process and results in an engaging and informative way, and identify the limitations of quantitative analysis. A personal laptop will be required. A lab led by the TA will accompany this course.#
&CRP 4770 | Seminar on Issues in African Development&
#Examines a broad range of critical concerns in contemporary Africa including food production, human resource development, migration, urbanization, environmental resource management, economic growth, and policy guidance. The weekly presentations are made by invited specialists. Students write weekly memos about the talks.#
&CRP 4900 | Student-Faculty Research&
#Research, reading, and/or writing project in which a student and faculty member choose a topic related to urban and regional studies.#
&CRP 4920 | Undergraduate Honors Thesis Research&
#Honors students conduct research to prepare a thesis on a topic of their own choosing under the direction of a faculty member.#
&CRP 4930 | Undergraduate Honors Thesis Writing&
#Honors students prepare a thesis on a topic of their own choosing under the direction of a faculty member.#
&CRP 4940 | URS Internship&
#Unpaid internships at a minimum of 160 hours for 2 credits; 80 hours for 1 credit. For one credit student must produce a 10 page paper that relates to the experience of the internship, and for 2 credits a 20 page paper due to adviser in the semester following the internship.#
&CRP 4970 | Independent Study&
#Independent study classes are offered for variable credit, for up to a maximum of 4 credits and are applied as elective credits only. Enrollment requires the submission of an approved form.#
&CRP 5072 | Land Use, Environmental Planning, and Urban Design Workshop&
#Land Use and Environmental Planning workshop courses focus on the forces and actions that directly affect the physical character, transformation, rehabilitation, and preservation of natural landscapes, cities, and regions. Participants provide technical assistance to communities, and have the opportunity to work with communities in resolving critical planning issues. Topics may include development of land use and natural conservation plans, community redevelopment plans, design and analysis of public spaces, and strategies for making communities more environmentally and economically sustainable.#
&CRP 5074 | Economic and Community Development Workshop: Affordable Housing Law, Policy, and Practice&
#Economic and Community Development workshop courses focus on the economics of neighborhoods, cities, and regions with the intent of producing more informed and effective economic development policy. Topics of study include, among others, the application of analytical tools needed to produce first-rate economic development plans, the special needs of excluded, poor and segregated communities, use of quantitative and qualitative methods to address social inequalities, the politics of planning, relationships between economic development and community development.#
&CRP 5076 | International Planning and Development Workshop&
#The workshop exposes students to the complexity as well as the nuances of planning with poor communities in the Global South. It places a strong emphasis on an engaged model of learning, research and planning practice. An important part of the workshop is building effective working relationships across cultures, disciplinary perspectives and professional orientations. The workshop emphasizes the use of diverse sources of data and information, and effective communication of deliverables. Because the workshop responds to the needs of international collaborators and stakeholders, the substantive focus of the workshop and the deliverables changes from one year to the next. In recent years the workshop has focused on issues related to poverty, water, shelter and participatory planning.#
&CRP 5077 | International Planning and Development Field Studies&
#This course will provide students enrolled in a CRP 5076 class the opportunity to participate in an extended trip in order to conduct field studies connected to the work in the concurrent CRP 5076 course. This optional course may also meet several times prior to the field trip, include additional readings, discussions and assignments, and will require submission of an appropriate deliverable regarding the field trip.#
&CRP 5080 | Introduction to GIS for Planners&
#This course is designed to provide students with a conceptual understanding of geographic information systems (GIS) and sciences, practical hands on experience with GIS software, and understanding of how GIS can be applied to planning practice and research. Students will be introduced to the basic concepts, structures, and functions of GIS as well as their applications and limitations.  By the end of this course students should be familiar with a range of available tools and methods to address planning related problems and issues, and be able to conceive of and manage a GIS project. This involves a) identifying a planning analysis/research problem that requires GIS data and spatial analysis to address/analyze the problem; and b) collecting, processing, and analyzing spatial data to interpret the findings.#
&CRP 5160 | Rome Workshop&
#This course focuses on the city as a system through the analysis of (1) a set of neighborhoods and (2) issues affecting these neighborhoods. We will consider the relationship of these neighborhoods and issues to the functioning of the contemporary city of Rome and the wellbeing of its residents. This course will emphasize fieldwork and experiential learning that is supported with readings, class discussions and lectures.  Field activities will take place during scheduled class times plus supplemental hours that are scheduled informally for an average of 12 hours per week, in addition to time spent on reading, writing, and the field trips.#
&CRP 5190 | Urban Theory&
#We live in an urban majority world, with diverse patterns of urbanization and types of urban places. Cities are not just nodes on transaction networks, or physical collections of build form specific to a context and global movements, or diverse places that represent a mix of cultures over time. They are political assemblages in which formal and informal institutions of governance are forged and continue to be shaped as policies change and morph over time. Various processes impacting societies shape the cities where we live, work, and play: ranging from climate change, shifting migration patterns, and large-scale population movements to changes in geo-political power and the technologies of infrastructure, communication, and manufacturing. But what constitutes the city? What concepts allow us to understand how cities grow, shrink, or expand, and shivel or thrive? This course seeks to introduce you to the broad contours of an interdisciplinary body of work that aims to theorize the city. Using a format of readings, lectures, and discussions, we seek to become familiar with core perspectives of well-established traditions in urban theory that emerges from perspectives on city economy, spatial development, environment, infrastructure, social life, cultural experience, urban politics, and interventions.#
&CRP 5250 | Methods for Spatial Economic and Demographic Analysis&
#This course presents quantitative methods for analyzing the contemporary space economy, nationally and internationally. It resides at the intersection of economics and geographic information science—namely, in the domains of planning and regional science, as interdisciplinary fields focused on socioeconomic phenomena having explicitly spatial and/or environmental dimensions. The overall approach is to learn a broad array of methods by applying them to key planning problems and questions, including: population forecasts, interregional migration; economic growth; housing markets, urban simulation, and more. The goals of the course are to understand methods of economic and demographic analysis, the assumptions they involve and how they are implemented. The course will provide opportunities for reflection on how these methods are applied and used to inform urban planning and the various policies that flow from it. In short, it engages with quantitative methods for spatial economic and demographic analysis that shape the evidence-base used in plans, policies, and related decision-making. The course is scientific in nature and, therefore, emphasizes the complementarity of positive analysis and normative thinking.#
&CRP 5320 | Real Estate Development Process I&
#Examination of various forms of development as well as the role of major participants in the processes. Reviews issues in residential, retail, industrial, office, and low-income housing projects. This course is a prerequisite for CRP 5321.#
&CRP 5321 | Real Estate Development Process II&
#Examination of various forms of development, as well as the role of the major participants by a review of case studies of residential, retail, industrial, office, and low-income housing projects.#
&CRP 5348 | Design Connect&
#Design Connect Workshop is the for-credit option for students participating in the local and regional projects solicited, reviewed and executed by the independent student organization of the same name.  It provides planning and design services to upstate New York communities. Student teams engage community partners to create conceptual designs, with research and analysis, participatory visioning and design charrettes, town and master planning for public spaces. Course can be repeated for credit.#
&CRP 5370 | Real Estate Seminar Series&
#Designed to bring students weekly into direct contact with real-estate professionals mainly through the use of videoconferences originating from locations around the world.#
&CRP 5530 | Land Use and Spatial Planning Methods&
#This course provides an introduction to land use planning methods, especially those that are employed by local and regional governments. The course surveys analytical and participatory methods to shape urban form and the built environment in order to achieve more equitable and sustainable communities. Methods include the application scenario planning tools and methods, drafting and applying zoning regulations; creation of comprehensive plans, neighborhood, district and corridor plans; conducting inventories of natural and cultural resources, building vacant and buildable lands, and community greenhouse gas inventories; performing suitability and susceptibility to change analyses, among other methods. The course incorporates methods of community engagement, as well as methods of analysis. Methods are presented in the context of learning about topics to contemporary city and regional planning.#
&CRP 5590 | Land Use Law&
#This course will evaluate the means—formal/legal and informal/non-legal—by which landowners, developers, architects, planners, neighbors, private organizations, and government may shape the use of land in the United States.  Close attention will be paid to:  the tension between regulation and landowners' rights; aesthetic controls and historic preservation; planning concepts; constitutional issues; environmental concerns; and the role of markets.#
&CRP 5640 | Building Materials Conservation&
#A survey of the development of building materials in the United States, chiefly during the 19th and early 20th centuries, and a review of the measures that might be taken to conserve them. Students prepare a Historic Structure Report (HSR) on a property of their own choosing to be given to the site owner. The HSR includes historical research, a detailed written description, building condition analysis, recommendations for treatment, and a cost estimate.#
&CRP 5661 | Planning and Preservation Practice: Work Weekend&
#Students participate in a 4-day preservation field project at a historic site. Attendance at a preparatory lecture and/or workshop is required, as is a minimum of two full days working on site, in order to receive course credit.#
&CRP 5680 | Introduction to Urban Data Science: Data, Interpretation, and Presentation&
#This course will cover tools for more spatiotemporally dynamic and granular analyses of cities through data, code, statistics, and visualization. Using open-source data and computational tools based in Python and the Jupyter Notebook environment, topics may include data cleaning, linking, and management, open data portals and APIs, exploratory and descriptive spatial data analysis, visualization, both unsupervised clustering and regionalization techniques using machine learning, and supervised techniques such as regression, classification, and model selection. Students will also learn how to design testable research questions, apply relevant data and analytical techniques, present our process and results in an engaging and informative way, and identify the limitations of quantitative analysis. A personal laptop will be required. A lab led by the TA will accompany this course.#
&CRP 5720 | Contemporary Italy: Politics and Society&
#This course provides background on contemporary Italian politics and society, as an essential foundation to students with various disciplinary interests, from planning to architecture, from the fine arts to sociology and anthropology. This course provides a comprehensive survey of Italian society today, starting with Italy's geography and the historical forces that shaped the nation. It examines tensions between north and south, and such broad features of Italian social life as community structure, urban development, and family forms. The course also reviews selected institutional issues, such as gender, the system of education, problems of criminality and justice, economic reform, social class, religion, and politics.#
&CRP 5723 | European Cities&
#The course will focus on European cities and the challenges they are facing in a globalized economy. It provides a knowledge framework in the fields of urban planning and policies affecting European cities in the framework of the European integration process with the aim of making students achieve a better understanding of the constituents of European cities. By mixing historical perspectives with contemporary policy and project analysis, students will have an overview of the complex notion of Urban Europe useful for future research in urbanism and urban policies.#
&CRP 5840 | Green Cities&
#Cities are centers of innovation, economic growth, social mobility, and they provide economies of scale in the provision of infrastructure and social services. However, cities are also sites of growing socio-economic inequalities and environmental problems. Do cities provide the opportunity to address environmental problems, or are they rather the source of pollution and environmental degradation? Are cities the appropriate scale at which to address environmental problems? Are these really urban issues or do cities just cluster resource use and problems so they are more visible? What role does the built or physical environment have in impacting our behavior and decision making? This course examines social, economic, cultural, political and environmental dimensions of sustainability and sustainable development in urban areas.#
&CRP 5850 | Special Topics&
#This course addresses pertinent issues relative to planning. Topics vary each semester.#
&CRP 6430 | Affordable Housing Policy and Programs&
#Overview of federal, state, and local policies and programs to deliver affordable housing to low-income people; public housing, vouchers, inclusionary zoning, rent control, and much more. Lectures, debates, short papers, and term paper.#
&CRP 6560 | Real Estate Transactions and Deal Structuring&
#Real estate transactions and deal structuring examines real estate deals through a practitioner perspective within a case study and transactional approach. The course looks at the transactional components and structuring of real estate deals and related parties at each step in creating value from real estate, including acquisition and assemblage; due diligence; sourcing and financing; structuring the venture/parties; operation; disposition; and tax consequences. Additional issues within deal structuring that may be included are negotiation, managing risk including litigation and environmental issues, analysis of financing techniques, and consequences when deals go bad, including work out and bankruptcy. The case study format will address deals from the perspectives of investment fund manager, banker/lender, developer, REIT, joint venture partner/investor, and owner.#
&CRP 6565 | International Cases and Contracts&
#This course investigates real estate transactions that originate outside the United States and may be in a foreign country, in which the motivations for deals and transactions are outside the norm.  These include informal financing techniques; deal structuring with several local and foreign constituents; the limitations of contracts; and bankruptcy, in Europe, the Middle East, East Asia, South Asia, and Africa.#
&CRP 6595 | Special Topics in Real Estate&
#This course addresses pertinent issues relative to real estate.  Topics vary each semester.#
&CRP 6597 | Real Estate Competitions II: ULI Hines&
#The ULI Hines Competition challenges students to collaborate across disciplines and imagine a better built environment. Groups of five students form teams to devise a development program for a real site in a North American city, providing designs, market-based financial data, and related narratives.#
&CRP 6650 | Preservation Planning and Urban Change&
#Examination of fundamental planning concepts and issues as they relate to historic preservation. Neighborhood revitalization, federal housing programs, the role of public and private institutions, displacement, and other social issues are among the primary topics.#
&CRP 6690 | Special Topics in History and Preservation&
#This course addresses pertinent issues relative to history and preservation. Topics vary each semester.#
&CRP 6720 | International Institutions&
#The course introduces students to the theory and practice of international development planning from an institutional perspective. It begins with an introduction to the field and provides a historical, institutional and theoretical overview. The course examines the main actors involved in the practice of international development planning: the public sector, civil society, community-based organizations and the private sector. It critically analyzes some of the large international institutions engaged in urban policy-making and global governance. The last section of the course examines timely topics that have the potential to reconfigure the institutional landscape, planning practice, and cities.#
&CRP 6770 | Seminar on Issues in African Development&
#Examines a broad range of critical concerns in contemporary Africa including food production, human resource development, migration, urbanization, environmental resource management, economic growth, and policy guidance. The weekly presentations are made by invited specialists. Students write weekly memos about the talks. Graduate students (CRP 6770/GDEV 6770) facilitate one seminar question period.#
&CRP 6860 | Planning for Sustainable Transportation&
#Explores issues related to sustainable transportation policy and practice. The course (1) provides an overview of current transportation trends and their impacts; (2) reviews themes such as planning history and politics, the problems with auto-dominated systems, and key challenges to development sustainable transport systems; and (3) looks at regulatory, design, and market-based approaches to reducing automobile-dependency, introducing creative sustainable solutions from around the world.#
&CRP 7190 | Special Topics in Planning Theory and Politics&
#This course addresses pertinent issues relative to planning theory and politics. Topics vary each semester.#
&CRP 7201 | Ph.D. Research Design&
#This course provides a comprehensive review of the research and writing process to help Ph.D. students develop a strategy for writing a research proposal and journal article. The course provides a comprehensive review of the research design process and will result in each student developing his/her dissertation proposal. The course focuses on articulating research objectives, managing the research process, ethics, funding and professional development as a scholar. The course also explores how to write journal articles (journal selection, review process) and how to position your work in your academic field.#
&CRP 7850 | City and Regional Futures: Planning Practice, Policy and Design&
#This colloquium brings domestic and international experts to Cornell to talk about research and practice aimed at shaping the future of communities and regions. It includes an array of topics that span urban policy, planning practice and research, design, and applied research on technology and society. Course can be repeated for credit.#
&CRP 7940 | Planning Internship&
#Students participate in a structured, unpaid internship under the supervision of planning professionals in cooperating organizations. The internship should be purposeful, provide opportunities for reflection, present continual challenge to the student, and incorporate active learning. The faculty supervisor and student should outline the conditions of the work assignment, learning outcomes, and faculty supervision on an independent study form. A final project linking planning theory and practical work experience is required. The academic credit, however, is not based on the on-the-job training itself but rather on the active learning and reflection demonstrated in a written paper or project.#
&CRP 7970 | Independent Study for Graduate Students&
#For course information contact the department coordinator in 106 West Sibley Hall.#
&CRP 8900 | PhD Proseminar&
#Intended for doctoral candidates in city and regional planning and regional science; other students welcome. This course aims to introduce doctoral students to professional skills broadly associated with academic research and teaching. In short, the aim of the course is to prepare future scholars in the field.  Presentation and discussion of current problem areas and research by doctoral students and guest will help students develop a culture of presenting their work along with receiving and providing feedback.#
&CRP 8901 | M.R.P. Exit Project: Research&
#A student preparing an exit project (as defined by the Department of City and Regional Planning) to satisfy the M.R.P. Exit Project Requirement must complete this research course and CRP 8902. A student may not earn any credit connected to the exit project beyond that awarded for completion of CRP 8901 and CRP 8902/8904/8906.#
&CRP 8902 | M.R.P. Exit Project: Research Paper-Writing&
#A student preparing a Research Paper (as defined by the Department of City and Regional Planning) to satisfy the M.R.P. Exit Project requirement must complete this course and CRP 8901. A student will use CRP 8902 for writing the Research Paper.#
&CRP 8904 | M.R.P. Exit Project: Professional Report-Writing&
#A student preparing a Professional Report (as defined by the Department of City and Regional Planning) to satisfy the M.R.P. Exit Project Requirement must complete this course and CRP 8901. A student will use CRP 8904 for writing the Professional Report.#
&CRP 8906 | M.R.P. Exit Project: Thesis-Writing&
#A student preparing a Thesis (as defined by the Department of City and Regional Planning) to satisfy the M.R.P. Exit Project Requirement must complete this course and CRP 8901. A student will use CRP 8906 for writing the Thesis.#
&CRP 8910 | Master's Thesis in Regional Science&
#Students, working individually with faculty member(s), prepare a master's thesis in regional science.#
&CRP 8950 | Master's Thesis in Historic Preservation Planning&
#Students, working individually with faculty member(s), prepare a master's thesis in historic preservation planning.#
&CRP 9920 | Doctoral Dissertation&
#Dissertation research for Ph.D. students in the field of City and Regional Planning after "A" exam has been passed.#


$CS | Computer Science$
&CS 1110 | Introduction to Computing: A Design and Development Perspective&
#Programming and problem solving using Python. Emphasizes principles of software development, style, and testing. Topics include procedures and functions, iteration, recursion, arrays and vectors, strings, an operational model of procedure and function calls, algorithms, exceptions, object-oriented programming. Weekly labs provide guided practice on the computer, with staff present to help.#
&CS 1112 | Introduction to Computing: An Engineering and Science Perspective&
#Programming and problem solving using Python. Emphasizes the systematic development of algorithms and programs. Topics include iteration, functions, arrays, strings, recursion, object-oriented programming, algorithms, and data handling and visualization. Assignments are designed to build an appreciation for complexity, dimension, randomness, simulation, and the role of approximation in engineering and science. Weekly discussion section provides guided practice on the computer, with staff present to help.#
&CS 1132 | Short Course in MATLAB&
#Introduction to the MATLAB programming language. Covers the basic programming constructs of MATLAB, including assignment, conditionals, iteration, functions, arrays, vectorized computation, and scientific graphics. Designed for students who need MATLAB for research or other courses. Does not assume any previous programming experience.#
&CS 1133 | Short Course in Python&
#Introduction to the Python programming language. Covers the basic programming constructs of Python, including assignment, conditionals, iteration, functions, object-oriented design, arrays, and vectorized computation. Designed for students who need Python for research or other courses. Does not assume any previous programming experience.#
&CS 1340 | Choices and Consequences in Computing&
#Computing requires difficult choices that can have serious implications for real people. This course covers a range of ethical, societal, and policy implications of computing and information. It draws on recent developments in digital technology and their impact on society, situating these in the context of fundamental principles from computing, policy, ethics, and the social sciences. A particular emphasis will be placed on large areas in which advances in computing have consistently raised societal challenges: privacy of individual data; fairness in algorithmic decision-making; dissemination of online content; and accountability in the design of computing systems. As this is an area in which the pace of technological development raises new challenges on a regular basis, the broader goal of the course is to enable students to develop their own analyses of new situations as they emerge at the interface of computing and societal interests.#
&CS 1700 | Elements of Artificial Intelligence&
#This course provides a non-programming introduction to the key ideas of Artificial Intelligence (AI), intended for students without significant technical background in computing.  Students will leave with an understanding of the core technical ideas that power modern AI, in such areas as machine learning and neural networks, computer vision, natural processing, game AI, and robotics, as well as our evolving appreciation of the societal implications of work in this area.#
&CS 1998 | First-year and Nontechnical Team Projects&
#First-year and Nontechnical Team Projects.#
&CS 2043 | UNIX Tools and Scripting&
#UNIX and UNIX-like systems are increasingly being used on personal computers, mobile phones, web servers, and many other systems. They represent a wonderful family of programming environments useful both to computer scientists and to people in many other fields, such as computational biology and computational linguistics, in which data is naturally represented by strings. This course takes students from shell basics and piping, to regular-expression processing tools, to shell scripting and Python. Other topics to be covered include handling concurrent and remote resources, manipulating streams and files, and managing software installations.#
&CS 2110 | Object-Oriented Programming and Data Structures&
#Intermediate programming in a high-level language and introduction to software engineering. Topics include object-oriented programming (objects, classes, subtypes, encapsulation, polymorphism), program correctness (specifications, invariants, testing), algorithm analysis (asymptotic complexity, big "O" notation), recursion, data structures (lists, trees, stacks, queues, heaps, hash tables, graphs), iteration and searching/sorting, graph algorithms, and concurrent and event-driven programming (graphical user interfaces, synchronization). Java is the principal programming language.#
&CS 2770 | Excursions in Computational Sustainability&
#Balancing environmental, economic, and societal needs for a sustainable future encompasses problems of unprecedented size and complexity. Computing and information science can play an important role in addressing critical sustainability challenges faced by present and future generations. The goal of the course is to introduce students to a range of sustainability challenges and to computational methods that can help address such challenges. Sustainability topics include sustainable development, biodiversity and wildlife conservation, poverty mitigation, food security, renewable resources, energy, transportation, and climate change. In the context of these sustainability topics, the course will introduce students to mathematical and computational modeling techniques, algorithms, and statistical methods. The course is at the introductory undergraduate level. Students are expected to have basic knowledge of probability theory and calculus.#
&CS 2800 | Mathematical Foundations of Computing&
#Covers the mathematics that underlies most of computer science. Topics include mathematical induction; logical proof; propositional and
predicate calculus; sets, functions, and relations; graphs; combinatorics and discrete mathematics; basic probability theory; andfinite-state machines. These topics are discussed in the context ofapplications to many areas of computer science.#
&CS 3110 | Data Structures and Functional Programming&
#Advanced programming course that emphasizes functional programming techniques and data structures. Programming topics include recursive and higher-order procedures, models of programming language evaluation and compilation, type systems, and polymorphism. Data structures and algorithms covered include graph algorithms, balanced trees, memory heaps, and garbage collection. Also covers techniques for analyzing program performance and correctness.#
&CS 3152 | Introduction to Computer Game Architecture&
#A project-based course in which programmers and designers collaborate to make a computer game. This course investigates the theory and practice of developing computer games from a blend of technical, aesthetic, and cultural perspectives. Technical aspects of game architecture include software engineering, artificial intelligence, game physics, computer graphics, and networking. Aesthetic and cultural include art and modeling, sound and music, game balance, and player experience.#
&CS 3410 | Computer System Organization and Programming&
#Introduction to computer organization, systems programming and the hardware/ software interface. Topics include instruction sets, computer arithmetic, datapath design, data formats, addressing modes, memory hierarchies including caches and virtual memory, I/O devices, bus-based I/O systems, and multicore architectures. Students learn assembly language programming and design a pipelined RISC processor.#
&CS 3420 | Embedded Systems&
#An introduction to the design of embedded systems, with an emphasis on understanding the interaction between hardware, software, and the physical world. Topics covered include assembly language programming, interrupts, I/O, concurrency management, scheduling, resource management, and real-time constraints.#
&CS 3700 | Foundations of AI Reasoning and Decision-Making&
#Introduction to major topics in artificial intelligence, including heuristic search, game-playing, knowledge representation and reasoning, planning, probabilistic inference, sequential decision-making and reinforcement learning.#
&CS 3780 | Introduction to Machine Learning&
#The course provides an introduction to machine learning, focusing on supervised learning and its theoretical foundations. Topics include regularized linear models, boosting, kernels, deep networks, generative models, online learning, and ethical questions arising in ML applications.#
&CS 4090 | Teaching Experience in Computer Science&
#Earn course credit for working as a consultant or ugrad TA in a computer science course.#
&CS 4152 | Advanced Topics in Computer Game Architecture&
#Project-based follow-up course to CS 3152. Students work in a multidisciplinary team to develop a game that incorporates innovative game technology. Advanced topics include 3D game development, mobile platforms, multiplayer gaming, and nontraditional input devices. There is a special emphasis on developing games that can be submitted to festivals and competitions.#
&CS 4220 | Numerical Analysis: Linear and Nonlinear Problems&
#Introduction to the fundamentals of numerical linear algebra: direct and iterative methods for linear systems, eigenvalue problems, singular value decomposition. In the second half of the course, the above are used to build iterative methods for nonlinear systems and for multivariate optimization. Strong emphasis is placed on understanding the advantages, disadvantages, and limits of applicability for all the covered techniques. Computer programming is required to test the theoretical concepts throughout the course.#
&CS 4300 | Language and Information&
#How to make sense of the vast amounts of information available online, and how to relate it and to the social context in which it appears? This course introduces basic tools for retrieving and analyzing unstructured textual information from the web and social media. Applications include information retrieval (with human feedback), sentiment analysis, and social analysis of text. The coursework will include programming projects that play on the interaction between knowledge and social factors.#
&CS 4410 | Operating Systems&
#Introduction to the design of systems programs, with emphasis on multiprogrammed operating systems. Topics include concurrency, synchronization, deadlocks, memory management, protection, input-output methods, networking, file systems and security. The impact of network and distributed computing environments on operating systems is also discussed.#
&CS 4411 | Practicum in Operating Systems&
#Studies the practical aspects of operating systems through the design and implementation of an operating system kernel that supports multiprogramming, virtual memory, and various input-output devices. All the programming for the project is in a high-level language.#
&CS 4450 | Introduction to Computer Networks&
#This course introduces the basic architectural and design principles of computer networking including the design of communication protocols, congestion control, routing and switching, Internet, data center networks and wireless networks.#
&CS 4670 | Introduction to Computer Vision&
#An in-depth introduction to computer vision. The goal of computer vision is to compute properties of our world-the 3D shape of an environment, the motion of objects, the names of people or things-through analysis of digital images or videos.  The course covers a range of topics, including 3D reconstruction, image segmentation, object recognition, and vision algorithms fro the Internet, as well as key algorithmic, optimization, and machine learning techniques, such as graph cuts, non-linear least squares, and deep learning.  This course emphasizes hands-on experience with computer vision, and several large programming projects.#
&CS 4701 | Practicum in Artificial Intelligence&
#Artificial Intelligence project class. Topic choice is student driven and (small) teams are encouraged, but each individual team member must do substantial implementation with significant average weekly time commitment. Possible projects topics include knowledge representation systems, search procedures, game-playing, automated reasoning, machine learning, genetic algorithms, planning, natural language processing, computer vision. Should be taken only by students with significant experience in Artificial Intelligence, such as those who have already taken CS 3700, CS 3780, CS 4670, or CS 4740.#
&CS 4740 | Natural Language Processing&
#This course constitutes an introduction to natural language processing (NLP), the goal of which is to enable computers to use human languages as input, output, or both. NLP is at the heart of many of today's most exciting technological achievements, including machine translation, question answering and automatic conversational assistants. The course will introduce core problems and methodologies in NLP, including machine learning, problem design, and evaluation methods.#
&CS 4744 | Computational Linguistics I&
#Computational models of natural languages. Topics are drawn from: tree syntax and context free grammar, finite state generative morpho-phonology, feature structure grammars, logical semantics, tabular parsing, Hidden Markov models, categorial and minimalist grammars, text corpora, information-theoretic sentence processing, discourse relations, and pronominal coreference.#
&CS 4754 | Re-Designing Robots&
#This course provides an introduction to human robot interaction. Students will be working alone and in teams to design and examine novel ways for robots to interact with people. In parallel to the design projects students will be introduced to current research on human-robot interaction. Topics include: video interaction analysis, prototyping, and evaluation. This course will require students to re-design a physical robot using basic mechatronics skills with Arduino or similar platforms. Focus of the class will be on designing the interaction with the robot through experimentation with a physical system.#
&CS 4756 | Robot Learning&
#How do we get robots out of the labs and into the real world with all it's complexities?
Robots must solve two fundamental problems -- (1) Perception: Sense the world using different modalities and (2) Decision making: Act in the world by reasoning over decisions and their consequences. Machine learning promises to solve both problems in a scalable way using data. However, it has fallen short when it comes to robotics.
This course dives deep into robot learning, looks at fundamental algorithms and challenges, and case-studies of real-world applications from self-driving to manipulation.#
&CS 4758 | Autonomous Mobile Robots&
#Creating robots capable of performing complex tasks autonomously requires one to address a variety of different challenges such as sensing, perception, control, planning, mechanical design, and interaction with humans. In recent years many advances have been made toward creating such systems, both in the research community (different robot challenges and competitions) and in industry (industrial, military, and domestic robots). This course gives an overview of the challenges and techniques used for creating autonomous mobile robots. Topics include sensing, localization, mapping, path planning, motion planning, obstacle and collision avoidance, and multi-robot control.#
&CS 4782 | Introduction to Deep Learning&
#This class is an introductory course to deep learning. It covers the fundamental principles behind training and inference of deep networks, the specific architecture design choices applicable for different data modalities, discriminative and generative settings, and the ethical and societal implications of such models.#
&CS 4789 | Introduction to Reinforcement Learning&
#Reinforcement Learning is one of the most popular paradigms for modelling interactive learning and sequential decision making in dynamical environments. This course introduces the basics of Reinforcement Learning and the Markov Decision Process. The course will cover algorithms for planning and learning in Markov Decision Processes. We will discuss potential applications of Reinforcement Learning and their implications. We will study and implement classic Reinforcement Learning algorithms.#
&CS 4810 | Introduction to Theory of Computing&
#Introduction to the modern theory of computing: automata theory, formal languages, and effective computability.#
&CS 4820 | Introduction to Analysis of Algorithms&
#Develops techniques used in the design and analysis of algorithms, with an emphasis on problems arising in computing applications. Example applications are drawn from systems and networks, artificial intelligence, computer vision, data mining, and computational biology. This course covers four major algorithm design techniques (greedy algorithms, divide-and-conquer, dynamic programming, and network flow), undecidability and NP-completeness, and algorithmic techniques for intractable problems (including identification of structured special cases , approximation algorithms, local search heuristics, and online algorithms).#
&CS 4850 | Probability, Vectors, and Matrices in Computing&
#Covers the mathematical foundations for access to information. Topics include high dimensional space, random graphs, singular value decomposition, Markov processes, learning theory, and algorithms for massive data.#
&CS 4852 | Networks II: Market Design&
#Networks II builds on its prerequisite course and continues to examine how each of the computing, economic, sociological and natural worlds are connected and how the structure of these connections affects these worlds. In this course, we will construct mathematical models for and analyze networked settings, allowing us to both make predictions about behavior in such systems, as well as reason about how to design such systems to exhibit some desirable behavior. Throughout, we will draw on real-world examples such as social networks, peer-to-peer filesharing, Internet markets, and crowdsourcing, that illustrate these phenomena.#
&CS 4997 | Practical Training in Computer Science&
#This independent study course offers CS majors (i.e., undergraduates whose applications to affiliate with the CS major have been approved) an opportunity to reflect on concepts from computer science as they were encountered and applied in a recent internship. Students write a short paper describing their work experience and how it connects to the educational objectives of the computer science major.#
&CS 4998 | Team Projects&
#Advanced independent work in computer science as part of a student-led team project.#
&CS 4999 | Independent Reading and Research&
#Independent reading and research for undergraduates.#
&CS 5150 | Software Engineering&
#Introduction to the practical problems of specifying, designing, building, testing, and delivering reliable software systems. Special topics include professionalism, project management, and the legal framework for software development. As a central part of the course, student teams carry out projects for real clients, using concepts of agile software development. Each project includes all aspects of software development from a feasibility study to final delivery.#
&CS 5152 | Advanced Topics in Computer Game Architecture&
#Students work in a multidisciplinary team to develop a game that incorporates innovative game technology. Advanced topics include 3D game development, mobile platforms, multiplayer gaming, and nontraditional input devices. There is a special emphasis on developing games that can be submitted to festivals and competitions.#
&CS 5223 | Numerical Analysis: Linear and Nonlinear Problems&
#Introduction to the fundamentals of numerical linear algebra: direct and iterative methods for linear systems, eigenvalue problems, singular value decomposition. In the second half of the course, the above are used to build iterative methods for nonlinear systems and for multivariate optimization. Strong emphasis is placed on understanding the advantages, disadvantages, and limits of applicability for all the covered techniques. Computer programming is required to test the theoretical concepts throughout the course.#
&CS 5342 | Trust and Safety: Platforms, Policies, Products&
#No description available.#
&CS 5410 | Operating Systems&
#Introduction to the design of systems programs, with emphasis on multiprogrammed operating systems. Topics include concurrency, synchronization, deadlocks, memory management, protection, input-output methods, networking, file systems and security. The impact of network and distributed computing environments on operating systems is also discussed.#
&CS 5412 | Cloud Computing&
#Focuses on cloud computing, large-scale Internet applications, and other practical issues in designing and implementing trustworthy, scalable distributed software.#
&CS 5430 | System Security&
#Surveys security for computers and communications networks, including policy issues (e.g., the national debates on cryptography policy) as well as technical approaches for implementing properties that comprise trustworthiness for a computing system: confidentiality, integrity, availability, and assurance. Discusses cryptographic protocols and other mechanisms for implementing authorization and authentication in hardware and in software.#
&CS 5433 | Blockchains, Cryptocurrencies, and Smart Contracts&
#No description available.#
&CS 5435 | Security and Privacy Concepts in the Wild&
#This course is a broad overview of modern computer security and digital privacy. It aims to impart technical and social understanding of how and why security and privacy matter, how to think adversarially, and how (and how not) to design secure systems and products. Topics include authentication, Web and mobile security, network, OS, and low-level software security, elements of applied cryptography, privacy protection technologies, censorship resistance, and security and privacy of emerging platforms, illustrated by studying real-world systems and attacks. Key learning objectives include understanding the role of threat modeling in the design and evaluation of modern computing systems, how exploitation of computing systems works, and approaches to finding and remediating vulnerabilities.#
&CS 5456 | Introduction to Computer Networks&
#This course introduces the basic architectural and design principles of computer networking including the design of communication protocols, congestion control, routing and switching, Internet, data center networks and wireless networks.#
&CS 5643 | Physically Based Animation for Computer Graphics&
#This course introduces students to fundamental physically based modeling techniques used in computer graphics for animation of rigid and deformable solids, virtual characters, fluids and gases, and other systems. Students learn the techniques by implementing a series of interactive computer programs that apply a range of representative simulation methods to simple, primarily 2D systems, and by proposing and implementing a final project.#
&CS 5670 | Introduction to Computer Vision&
#An in-depth introduction to computer vision. The goal of computer vision is to compute properties of our world - including the 3D shape of an environment, the motion of objects, and the names of things - through analysis of digital images or videos. The course covers a range of topics, including low-level vision, 3D reconstruction, and object recognition, as well as key algorithmic, optimization, and machine learning techniques, including deep learning. This course emphasizes hands-on experience with computer vision and includes several programming projects.#
&CS 5700 | Foundations of AI Reasoning and Decision-Making&
#Introduction to major topics in artificial intelligence, including heuristic search, game-playing, knowledge representation and reasoning, planning, probabilistic inference, sequential decision-making and reinforcement learning.#
&CS 5726 | Applied Causal Inference using Machine Learning&
#Provides an applied treatment of modern causal inference using machine learning to handle high-dimensionality and nonparametric estimation. Formulates key causal questions in the languages of structural equation modeling and potential outcomes. Presents methods for estimating and constructing confidence intervals on causal and structural parameters using machine learning, including de-biased machine learning, and for learning how to predict heterogeneous treatment effects. Introduces tools from machine learning and deep learning developed for prediction purposes and discusses how to adapt them to causal inference. Emphasizes the applied and practical perspectives with real-world-data examples and assignments. Requires basic knowledge of statistics and machine learning and programming experience in R or Python.#
&CS 5740 | Natural Language Processing&
#This course constitutes an introduction to natural language processing (NLP), the goal of which is to enable computers to use human languages as input, output, or both. NLP is at the heart of many of today's most exciting technological achievements, including machine translation, automatic conversational assistants and Internet search. The course will introduce core problems and methodologies in NLP, including machine learning, problem design, and evaluation methods.#
&CS 5756 | Robot Learning&
#How do we get robots out of the labs and into the real world with all it's complexities?
Robots must solve two fundamental problems -- (1) Perception: Sense the world using different modalities and (2) Decision making: Act in the world by reasoning over decisions and their consequences. Machine learning promises to solve both problems in a scalable way using data. However, it has fallen short when it comes to robotics.
This course dives deep into robot learning, looks at fundamental algorithms and challenges, and case-studies of real-world applications from self-driving to manipulation.#
&CS 5758 | Autonomous Mobile Robots&
#Creating robots capable of performing complex tasks autonomously requires one to address a variety of different challenges such as sensing, perception, control, planning, mechanical design, and interaction with humans. In recent years many advances have been made toward creating such systems, both in the research community (different robot challenges and competitions) and in industry (industrial, military, and domestic robots). This course gives an overview of the challenges and techniques used for creating autonomous mobile robots. Topics include sensing, localization, mapping, path planning, motion planning, obstacle and collision avoidance, and multi-robot control.#
&CS 5780 | Introduction to Machine Learning&
#The course provides an introduction to machine learning, focusing on supervised learning and its theoretical foundations. Topics include regularized linear models, boosting, kernels, deep networks, generative models, online learning, and ethical questions arising in ML applications.#
&CS 5789 | Introduction to Reinforcement Learning&
#Reinforcement Learning is one of the most popular paradigms for modelling interactive learning and sequential decision making in dynamical environments. This course introduces the basics of Reinforcement Learning and Markov Decision Process. The course will cover algorithms for planning and learning in Markov Decision Processes. We will discuss potential applications of Reinforcement Learning and their implications. We will study and implement classic Reinforcement Learning algorithms.#
&CS 5820 | Introduction to Analysis of Algorithms&
#Develops techniques used in the design and analysis of algorithms, with an emphasis on problems arising in computing applications. Example applications are drawn from systems and networks, artificial intelligence, computer vision, data mining, and computational biology. This course covers four major algorithm design techniques (greedy algorithms, divide-and-conquer, dynamic programming, and network flow), undecidability and NP-completeness, and algorithmic techniques for intractable problems (including identification of structured special cases, approximation algorithms, local search heuristics, and online algorithms).#
&CS 5850 | Probability, Vectors, and Matrices in Computing&
#Covers the mathematical foundations for access to information. Topics include high dimensional space, random graphs, singular value decomposition, Markov processes, learning theory, and algorithms for massive data.#
&CS 5996 | Special Topics in Computer Science&
#No description available.#
&CS 5998 | Master of Engineering Internship&
#Off-campus internship with industry in which a student gains knowledge and experience in the field of computer science.#
&CS 5999 | Master of Engineering Project&
#Independent or group project under the direction of a CS field member or researcher. Projects involve the development of a computer science application (software or hardware) useful in exploring and/or solving an engineering problem with a computer science focus.#
&CS 6110 | Advanced Programming Languages&
#Study of programming paradigms: functional, imperative, concurrent, and probabilistic programming. Mathematical foundations: inductive definitions, fixed points, and formal semantics. Models of programming languages including the lambda calculus. Type systems, polymorphism, modules, and object-oriented constructs. Program transformations, program logic, and applications to programming methodology.#
&CS 6120 | Advanced Compilers&
#This is a hands-on course about implementing programming languages. It covers intermediate representations, classic optimization, runtime systems, and more advanced techniques such as parallelization, just-in-time compilation, and garbage collection. Course work consists of reading and discussing both classic and modern research papers and implementation projects based on the LLVM compiler infrastructure.#
&CS 6156 | Runtime Verification&
#Runtime Verification (RV) is a lightweight formal method for checking program executions against specifications. Foundations, algorithms, and tools for major approaches to RV will be covered, including monitor synthesis, specification languages, parametric monitoring, monitorability, instrumentation, and static analysis for reducing RV overhead. Students will become familiar with recent research results and challenges in RV, gain experience with RV tools, and conduct a research project.#
&CS 6230 | Parallel Architectures, Algorithms, and Applications&
#The course will be divided into modules. The course will start with an overview of parallel machines and parallel programming. The course then will cover parallel computing topics in machine learning and deep learning combinatorial scientific computing, heterogeneous parallel programming and architectures, and high-performance domain-specific languages.#
&CS 6241 | Numerical Methods for Data Science&
#A discussion of numerical methods in the context of data analysis, machine learning, and network science problems. The course will focus on matrix and tensor decompositions, numerical algorithms for graph data, least squares, regression, and iterative methods.#
&CS 6386 | Data to Decisions: Principles of Efficient Data Science&
#No description available.#
&CS 6412 | Advanced Topics in Operating Systems&
#The overall objective of the course is to train students to acquire the skills required to become a faculty member in operating systems. This includes understanding the broader landscape of operating systems and its applications, the ability to give clear presentations on the undergraduate and graduate level, write peer review assessments of research papers, conduct independent research, and write a final research report.  The course focuses on one or more core focus areas within operating systems research, such as storage systems, memory systems, networking, distributed systems or security. Additionally, students conduct an independent research project including a coding demo and produce a written report on their findings.#
&CS 6458 | Systems for Programmable Optical Interconnects&
#This graduate-level course will systematically explore the fundamentals of optical interconnects in computer systems. The course will discuss the design, implementation and value of optical interconnects of a variety of sizes: long-haul optical interconnects, datacenter-scale optical interconnects and server-scale optical interconnects.#
&CS 6682 | Computation for Content Creation&
#This course will focus on computational tools and methods for content creation in different domains. We will cover methods used in interactive artistic applications (visual arts, film, music, video games) as well as domains where complete automation is the goal (e.g., photometric reconstruction and image-based rendering, data augmentation). The course will involve a mix of lectures given by the instructor and presentations/discussions about research papers that will be assigned to students. Topics will include: different representations of images (e.g., vector and raster graphics), 3D models (e.g., surface manifolds vs volumetric representations), and audio (e.g., time signals vs short-time spectra), as well as parametric control of these representations and their relation to other types of data. A theory or program heavy project will be completed.#
&CS 6741 | Topics in Natural Language Processing and Machine Learning&
#Robust language understanding has the potential to transform how we interact with computers, extract information from text and study language on large scale. This research-oriented course examines machine learning and inference methods for recovering language structure and meaning. Possible topics include structured prediction and deep learning, methods for situated language understanding, language grounding, and learning to generate text.#
&CS 6751 | Robot Manipulation&
#Robot manipulation is the ability for a robot to interact physically with objects in the world and manipulate them towards completing a task. It is one of the greatest technical challenges in robotics, due primarily to the interplay of uncertainty about the world and clutter within it. As robots become integrated into complex human environments, robot manipulation is increasingly necessary to assist humans in these unstructured environments. Robotic manipulation will enable applications like personal assistant robots in the home and factory worker robots in advanced manufacturing. This course is a mixture of lectures and paper presentations and covers the fundamental theory, concepts, and systems of robot manipulation, including both software and hardware. Topics we will cover this semester include perception, state estimation, robot arm kinematics and dynamics, task and motion planning, machine learning, controls, human-robot interaction towards various robot manipulation tasks. The course features a semester-long group project in which students propose, formalize, and execute a working robotic manipulation system towards a real-world task. The scope of possible components is quite broad and extends beyond traditional robotics issues into other aspects of CS. This course is offered to prepare a student for Ph.D. research in robot manipulation.#
&CS 6754 | Human-Robot Interaction: Algorithms and Experiments&
#As robots move from factory floors and battlefields into homes, offices, schools, and hospitals, how can we build robotic systems made for human interaction?  Course will cover core engineering, computational, and experimental techniques in human-robot interaction (HRI). Lectures will cover key algorithms in Probabilistic Robotics, including Bayesian Networks, Markov Models, HMMs, Kalman and Particle Filters, MDP and POMPD, Supervised Learning, and Reinforcement Learning. Seminal and recent papers in HRI will be discussed, including topics such as: generating intentional action, reasoning about humans, social navigation, teamwork and collaboration, machine learning with humans in the loop, and human-robot dialog. Students will learn methods for designing and analyzing HRI experiments.  Presentation of papers in class, and an HRI-related research project in teams will be required.  Intended for M.Eng to PhD students from multiple disciplines including MAE, CS, ECE and IS.#
&CS 6785 | Deep Probabilistic and Generative Models&
#Generative models are a class of machine learning algorithms that define probability distributions over complex, high-dimensional objects such as images, sequences, and graphs. Recent advances in deep neural networks and optimization algorithms have significantly enhanced the capabilities of these models and renewed research interest in them. This course explores the foundational probabilistic principles of deep generative models, their learning algorithms, and popular model families, which include variational autoencoders, generative adversarial networks, autoregressive models, and normalizing flows. The course also covers applications in domains such as computer vision, natural language processing, and biomedicine, and draws connections to the field of reinforcement learning.#
&CS 6802 | Lattices: Geometry, Cryptography, and Algorithms&
#A mathematically rigorous course on lattices. Lattices are periodic sets of vectors in high-dimensional space. They play a central role in modern cryptography, and they arise naturally in the study of high-dimensional geometry (e.g., sphere packings). We will study lattices as both geometric and computational objects. Topics include Minkowski's celebrated theorem, the famous LLL algorithm for finding relatively short lattice vectors, Fourier-analytic methods, basic cryptographic constructions, and modern algorithms for finding shortest lattice vectors. We may also see connections to algebraic number theory.#
&CS 6817 | Special Topics in Complexity Theory&
#This course will focus on the 'Analysis of Boolean Functions' with the objective to unravel properties of Boolean functions by studying their Fourier spectra. The harmonic analysis of Boolean functions has become a powerful tool in theoretical computer science, leading to groundbreaking results in various areas such as social choice theory, hardness of approximation, learning theory, pseudorandomness, property testing and circuit complexity. In fact, the tools developed in this area have found key applications beyond computer science, in particular leading to key developments in areas of random graphs, statistical physics, combinatorics and metric spaces. The course will aim to provide an in-depth introduction to this field of study.#
&CS 7090 | Computer Science Colloquium&
#Weekly meeting for the discussion and study of important topics in the field.#
&CS 7190 | Seminar in Programming Languages&
#The Programming Languages Discussion Group meets weekly to discuss papers in the area of programming languages, program analysis, and compilers. The goal is to encourage interactions and discussions between students, researchers, and faculty with interests in this area. The seminar is open to everybody interested in languages and compilers. First-year and second-year students are especially encouraged to participate.#
&CS 7290 | Seminar on Scientific Computing and Numerics&
#Talks on various methods in scientific computing, the analysis of their convergence properties and computational efficiency, and their adaptation to specific applications.#
&CS 7390 | Database Seminar&
#The database seminar is the weekly meeting of students and faculty interested in data management and data mining at Cornell. We typically discuss one or two papers on related topics per session. We focus on recent and seminal papers of general interest.#
&CS 7490 | Systems Research Seminar&
#The Systems Research Seminar discusses recent, interesting papers in the systems area, broadly defined to span operating systems, distributed systems, networking, architecture, databases, security, and programming languages. The goal is to foster technical discussions among the Cornell systems research community.#
&CS 7690 | Computer Graphics and Vision Seminar&
#The Graphics/Vision Research Seminar discusses recent research in the areas of computer graphics and computer vision. The goal is to foster technical discussions and collaboration among the Cornell graphics and vision research community.#
&CS 7790 | Seminar in Artificial Intelligence&
#The AI seminar will meet weekly for lectures by graduate students, faculty, and researchers emphasizing work-in-progress and recent results in AI research.#
&CS 7794 | Seminar in Natural Language Understanding&
#This course, the NLP seminar, is a weekly meeting for people currently or soon to be actively doing research in NLP. (Students simply looking to learn more about NLP should not enroll, but should take one of our lecture courses instead.) One participant leads discussion each week, either of a recently published paper or of their own work in progress.#
&CS 7796 | Robotics Seminar&
#Informal seminar in which current topics in robotics are discussed.#
&CS 7890 | Seminar in Theory of Algorithms and Computing&
#The theory seminar will meet weekly for lectures by graduate students, faculty, and researchers emphasizing work-in-progress and recent results related to theory of computing.#
&CS 7999 | Independent Research&
#Independent research for CS PhD students who have not yet passed their A-exam.#


$CZECH | Czech$
&CZECH 1132 | Elementary Czech II&
#This course aims to expand basic proficiency in understanding, reading, speaking, and writing the Czech language.  The course works through a selection of dialogues, texts and exercises to develop mastery of the most essential idiomatic vocabulary and grammatical structures necessary for basic communications in Czech and for laying a solid foundation for further study of the language.#
&CZECH 1134 | Intermediate Czech II&
#The purpose of this course is for students to improve their intermediate proficiency in reading, writing, speaking and understanding the Czech language while expanding their knowledge of Czech geography, history, culture, and the way Czech people live today.  Students will further their mastery of Czech grammatical structures and develop vocabulary and fluency sufficient to discuss some abstract and specialized topics as well as their own experiences, opinions and ambitions, and to achieve an ever broader and more complex range of competencies in Czech.#


$DEA | Design & Environmental Analysis$
&DEA 1140 | Principles of Design Computing&
#The course will cover foundational skills and best practices for design communication in terms of the underlying principles of computing technologies. This course will help students become versatile in utilizing various approaches and tools for tasks in Design and Environmental Analysis (DEA) and Fiber Science & Apparel Design (FSAD) programs. The first module will cover the foundations of 2D graphics and technical drawing. The second module will be an introduction to 3D modeling and rendering. Each module will start as one class with a focus on general principles and will be followed by the class dividing into two sections for applications specific to DEA and FSAD programs. The final module will include an introduction to Generative Artificial Intelligence techniques as a part of a collaborative final project where students will work in multidisciplinary teams to design, curate, and propose an exhibition (DEA) for a fashion collection (FSAD). Through lectures, class activities, homework and projects, the course will help students build confidence in digital design skills and be encouraged to explore further on their own.#
&DEA 1150 | Design Graphics and Visualization&
#This course immerses students in the act and art of design communication.  Students focus on a series of exercises covering both manual and digital visualization techniques to effectively present and communicate ideas to oneself and others. Students will become experienced with Adobe Suite (Photoshop, Illustrator, InDesign), AutoCAD, SketchUp and Revit software applications in addition to manual hand skill development (sketching, drafting, rendering).#
&DEA 2025 | Impactful Graphics: Visual Communication for Social Impact&
#This course provides a foundation in graphic design to communicate ideas and create impact. This course encourages students to engage with the visual language of design through experimentation, exploration and iteration, connecting action (making visual form) to reflection (looking and thinking). It will require students to reflect upon the relationship between form-making and meaning-making as well as to consider the ethics of graphic design and its impact on society. Students will work in two dimensions by hand and with the digital tools of the Adobe Suite (Illustrator, InDesign and Photoshop).#
&DEA 2203 | StudioSHIFT&
#Temporal spaces dominate the interior landscape at this point in history, reflecting the fleeting nature of information in a society consumed with momentary experiences. This studio will both expand and contract notions of spatial/environmental communication through brand-forward environments, exhibit-forward environments, and social advocacy experiences.#
&DEA 2700 | Healthy Places: Design, Planning and Public Health&
#Drawing from public health, environmental psychology, design, urban planning, architecture and landscape architecture, we examine how the physical environment influences health and health behaviors. We consider various contexts from rooms and buildings to parks and cities. Outcomes include physical and mental health, diet, physical activity and obesity.#
&DEA 2750 | Lighting Design: Light InForming Space&
#Light brings both necessity and nuance to the built environment, creating functional spaces and conjuring apparitions in perception, scale, time and sensory impulses. Developing a working knowledge of lighting design while seeking light as a transformative element, students will create lighting design/documentation and build light fixtures.#
&DEA 3030 | Materials for Design and Sustainability&
#A sustainable approach to the evaluation and selection of materials and finishes for creating products and places for people has the potential to ensure the future survival of our planet. This course provides an introduction to basic material properties and asks students to morph material sensibilities, understand performance testing, building codes, and formulate a life-cycle cost analysis. Emphasis on "green" methodologies and assessment, including the LEED and WELL building rating systems.#
&DEA 3050 | Construction Documentation: CAD and BIM&
#Construction documents are the written and graphic documents used to communicate a project design for construction and administration in the built world. In this course, students will gain exposure to leading industry tools, methods, and standards for producing construction drawings. Through a series of hands-on activities and assignments, students will explore components and details commonly used in design and construction, meet with practitioners in the field, and complete a basic set of drawings and documents in a BIM environment (REVIT).#
&DEA 3055 | Hospitality, Health and Design Industry Immersion Seminar&
#This course provides students the opportunity to learn directly from invited industry speakers with expertise in a spectrum of industries that link health, wellness, senior living with hospitality and design.  The speakers share their views on business, managerial, career, and other critical industry-related issues.#
&DEA 3302 | Sustainable Consumerism: The New Typologies Studio&
#The studio engages students in problem-solving, freehand drawings, digital and design skills to develop an innovative environment including libraries, retail, and learning spaces, specifically responding to cultural shifts in the built environment.#
&DEA 3308 | Positive Design Studio&
#This 4-credit studio-based course focuses on the practice of 'Positive Design'—design that aims to proactively promote or support the well-being of individuals or communities by evoking valuable experiences.#
&DEA 3550 | Research Methods in Human-Environment Relations&
#This course provides a foundation in research design, methods and tools, particularly those commonly used in human-environment relations (HER) research. Student will learn of the main aims and approaches to conducting HER research, as well as its terminology, logic, and procedures. Research examples, class exercises and project case studies will help to illustrate and reinforce course objectives. By the end of the course you will have an understanding of how to design, conduct, report, and critically evaluate research studies. Skills gained in this course will also enable you to be a savvy consumer of research.#
&DEA 4000 | Directed Readings&
#For study that predominantly involves library research and independent reading.#
&DEA 4010 | Empirical Research&
#For study that predominantly involves data collection and analysis or laboratory or studio projects.#
&DEA 4020 | Supervised Fieldwork&
#For study that involves both responsible participation in a community setting and reflection on that experience through discussion, reading, and writing. Academic credit is awarded for this integration of theory and practice.#
&DEA 4030 | Teaching Apprenticeship&
#For study that includes teaching methods in the field and assisting faculty with instruction. Students must have demonstrated a high level of performance in the subject to be taught and in the overall academic program.#
&DEA 4040 | Professional Practices and Ethics&
#Professional Practice/Ethics is designed to prepare graduating seniors with the working knowledge and essential skills needed to pursue professional jobs and other opportunities in the competitive field of design. This course is an introduction to the Professional Practice of the design disciplines; and concepts, conventions and processes related to the design and construction industry. Emphasis is placed on professionalism, professional ethics, leadership skills, regulation of the profession, business management, contracts and negotiations, specifications, building planning controls, and other aspects of professional practice.#
&DEA 4700 | Applied Ergonomic Methods&
#Covers physical and cognitive ergonomic methods and techniques and their application to the design of products and modern work environments. Covers conceptual frameworks for ergonomics analysis, systems methods and processes, a repertoire of ergonomics methods, and techniques for the analysis of products, work activities and work systems.#
&DEA 4800 | Ethical Design: Engine of Positive Change&
#Design has the power to change how we view and interact with the world which can cause positive or negative impacts. Modern society faces various issues which are all closely related to the ethical aspects of design: humanitarian crises, labor exploitation, injustice in the workplace, loss of diversity, overconsumption, pollution, lack of transparency and pseudo-solutions to name a few. This course will discuss various ethical issues in design that impact individuals, community/society, economies, cultures, social dynamics, and the environment.#
&DEA 4990 | Senior Honors Thesis&
#Opportunity for DEA majors to undertake original research and scholarly work leading to the preparation of a thesis. Students work closely with their thesis advisor on a topic of interest. For information, students should visit https://www.human.cornell.edu/dea/academics/undergraduate/honors.#
&DEA 5210 | Interaction Design Studio&
#Everyday things made interactive and adaptive by way of embedded systems have great promise to support and augment us at work, school, and home, as we roam, play, interconnect, and age. Students will iteratively design, prototype and evaluate artful, meticulous, full-scale, cyber-physical things responsive to specific challenges of an increasingly digital society.#
&DEA 5520 | Virtual Experience of Designed Environments&
#This course will immerse students in advanced techniques of design communication and evaluation for simulation-based research on user experience in designed environments. Through lectures, readings, demos, and hands on exercises, the course explores advanced visualization media for design and design research.#
&DEA 5700 | Designing Age Friendly Environments&
#This course focuses on the role of the built environment in fostering healthy development and aging across the lifespan, as well as examining how designed environments can support or limit healthy development and aging. Specifically, it will examine the relationship between children and older adults and their everyday environments at three scales: the city/community, individual spaces/interiors, and at the product/technology level. Through presentations, readings, fieldwork, site visits, design case studies, and community-engaged projects, students will critically explore age-friendly frameworks, and research and design strategies to gain an appreciation of the potential impacts, as well as opportunities and challenges, of designing age-friendly environments. Students will also be introduced to effective strategies and tools for assessing the age-friendliness of communities, spaces, and products, and translating findings from research and best practices into successful, supportive designed environments for children and older adults.#
&DEA 6000 | Special Problems for Graduates&
#For study of special problems in the areas of interior design, human environment relations, or facilities planning and management.#
&DEA 6010 | Directed Readings&
#For study that predominantly involves library research and independent study.#
&DEA 6020 | Graduate Empirical Research&
#For study that predominantly involves collection and analysis of research data.#
&DEA 6030 | Graduate Practicum&
#For study that predominantly involves field experience in community settings.#
&DEA 6055 | Hospitality, Health and Design Industry Immersion Seminar&
#This course provides students the opportunity to learn directly from invited industry speakers with expertise in a spectrum of industries that link health, wellness, senior living with hospitality and design.  The speakers share their views on business, managerial, career, and other critical industry-related issues.#
&DEA 6550 | Healthcare Innovations&
#Engage in a dialogue among design, health, medicine, policy, engineering, and management disciplines on innovations in healthcare through multidisciplinary practice. Learn about the latest concepts of evidence-based design (EBD) and healing environments, discuss practical applications, and have the option to gain skills for Evidence-based Design Accreditation and Certification (EDAC).#
&DEA 6700 | Applied Ergonomic Methods&
#Intended for graduate students who want a more thorough understanding of applied ergonomic methods than is provided by DEA 4700. Each student is required to attend DEA 4700 lectures, meet with the instructor and other graduate students for an additional class each week, and complete additional readings and projects.#
&DEA 6800 | Ethical Design: Engine of Positive Change&
#Modern society faces various issues which are all closely related to the ethical aspects of design: humanitarian crises, labor exploitation, injustice in the workplace, loss of diversity, over-consumption, pollution, lack of transparency and pseudo-solutions to name a few. This course will discuss various ethical issues in design that impact individuals, community/society, economies, cultures, social dynamics, and the environment. Students will identify and analyze critical ethical problems and explore solutions through class activities.#
&DEA 7100 | DEA Graduate Pro Seminar&
#This pro seminar meets once per week, and consists of professional development workshops (e.g., grant writing, scholarly presentations, research communications, IRB, nonacademic career) as well as student presentations of thesis development. The goal is to support young graduate students optimize their graduate experience at Cornell.#
&DEA 8990 | Master's Thesis and Research&
#Thesis research for Design + Environmental Analysis (DEA) master's students.#
&DEA 9990 | Ph.D. Thesis and Research&
#Dissertation research for Design + Environmental Analysis (DEA) Ph.D. students.#


$DESIGN | Design Tech$
&DESIGN 4197 | Special Topics in Design&
#This course addresses pertinent issues relative to the subject of design. The instructor(s) of the course are drawn from the permanent and visiting faculty who may either broadly or narrowly define the course's scope and content. Topics vary each semester.#
&DESIGN 4680 | Introduction to Urban Data Science: Data, Interpretation, and Presentation&
#This course will cover tools for more spatiotemporally dynamic and granular analyses of cities through data, code, statistics, and visualization. Using open-source data and computational tools based in Python and the Jupyter Notebook environment, topics may include data cleaning, linking, and management, open data portals and APIs, exploratory and descriptive spatial data analysis, visualization, both unsupervised clustering and regionalization techniques using machine learning, and supervised techniques such as regression, classification, and model selection. Students will also learn how to design testable research questions, apply relevant data and analytical techniques, present our process and results in an engaging and informative way, and identify the limitations of quantitative analysis. A personal laptop will be required. A lab led by the TA will accompany this course.#
&DESIGN 5680 | Introduction to Urban Data Science: Data, Interpretation, and Presentation&
#This course will cover tools for more spatiotemporally dynamic and granular analyses of cities through data, code, statistics, and visualization. Using open-source data and computational tools based in Python and the Jupyter Notebook environment, topics may include data cleaning, linking, and management, open data portals and APIs, exploratory and descriptive spatial data analysis, visualization, both unsupervised clustering and regionalization techniques using machine learning, and supervised techniques such as regression, classification, and model selection. Students will also learn how to design testable research questions, apply relevant data and analytical techniques, present our process and results in an engaging and informative way, and identify the limitations of quantitative analysis. A personal laptop will be required. A lab led by the TA will accompany this course.#
&DESIGN 6152 | Design and Making Across Disciplines II&
#This course is part two of an introduction to fundamental concepts and methods in design and emerging technologies across architecture, engineering, and science to prepare students with the necessary tools and knowledge for iterative, hybrid, and synthetic thinking in design & making across disciplines.#
&DESIGN 6197 | Special Topics in Design&
#This course addresses pertinent issues relative to the subject of design. The instructor(s) of the course are drawn from the permanent and visiting faculty who may either broadly or narrowly define the course's scope and content. Topics vary each semester.#
&DESIGN 6298 | Coding for Design II&
#The course is a continuation of DESIGN 6297. Students continue to explore and develop fundamental concepts and techniques for the integration of coding within design workflows at intermediate levels. The emphasis of the course is on the practical applications and design potential within such techniques while helping students understand the theoretical background and conceptual implications behind them. From a technical point, students will be introduced to XR technologies and material simulations and will handle both discrete and continuous forms. The aim is to develop intermediate skills and knowledge in order to be able to represent, analyze, synthesize and act upon spatial structures at various scales and levels of abstraction. The course is structured as a series of lecture/workshops accompanied by practical tutorials that will help students develop their coding skills.#
&DESIGN 6398 | Design for Physical Interaction II&
#This course provides intermediate instruction on the human-centered and technical workings behind interactive devices ranging from cell phones and video controllers to household appliances and smart cars. This is a hands-on, lab-based course. Topics include electronics prototyping, interface prototyping, sensors and actuators, microcontroller development, physical prototyping, and user testing.#
&DESIGN 6999 | Independent Study in Design Technology&
#This course is intended for students to study a Design Tech topic not covered in a standard course.#


$DUTCH | Dutch$
&DUTCH 1220 | Elementary Dutch II&
#This course is a continuation of DUTCH 1210. You will expand your knowledge of Dutch vocabulary & grammar through both the textbook and online resources such as Dutch TV and radio. You will improve your listening and reading skills, while learning about Dutch speaking societies. You will start writing texts in Dutch and your conversational skills will increase through in-class discussions and interaction with native speakers. At the end of the course, you will be able to be able to deal with everyday situations in Dutch and have simple conversations with native speakers.#
&DUTCH 3021 | Advanced Dutch II&
#This advanced course is focused on Dutch literature and films. Students will be reading two novels, which are both considered to be cornerstones of Dutch literature; both deal with crucial historical events. After finishing each novel, students will see the film adaptation of these novels. Students will prepare and read the novels in installments at home, and will get a deep understanding of the historical background of the events described in the novels in class. Relevant Dutch history will be highlighted through background readings and video.#
&DUTCH 5010 | 17th Century Dutch Texts&
#The course is specifically meant for PhD candidates, but undergraduates are welcome as well. Each week we read a different text, mainly from the 17th century, based on students' needs: topics of texts typically cover art history, law, history, literature etc.  These materials help students greatly with the difficult task of reading challenging printed and handwritten texts from the late 16th and 17th centuries. The course starts with an overview of reading strategies that students learn to apply when approaching texts written in the 1600's. As the semester progresses, we read more and more complex texts. The last two weeks of the semester are devoted to handwritten texts and students get an introduction to various hands. The goal of the course is to prepare students for archival research.#


$EAS | Earth & Atmospheric Sciences$
&EAS 1180 | How to Build a Habitable Planet&
#Our first human ancestors appeared only six million years ago--4.55 billion years into Earth's history. How did our planet develop the critical ingredients for human life—what are the characteristics that make our Pale Blue Dot suited to host complex life? Should we expect to find life elsewhere on other planets? How has human activity altered the story of the Earth, and what global challenges will Homo sapiens encounter in the coming years to decades? Can we devise and implement solutions to present and future environmental crises? In this course, we will investigate these questions through study of the formation and evolution of our universe, investigate the mechanisms that have led to intelligent life on Earth and quantify the impact of both natural and anthropogenic processes on Earth's changing surface. Students in this course will learn how to analyze and interpret scientific data and apply concepts like mass balance and convection to evaluate Earth as series of complex chemical and physical systems interacting over a breadth of scales.#
&EAS 1340 | Introductory Weather Analysis and Forecasting&
#This course serves as an extension of the EAS 1330 first year major's lab. It provides opportunity for formal weather briefings, explores specific atmospheric storms (synoptic and mesoscale, including the climatology of each storm type), through assigned readings, map analysis, and weather discussions.#
&EAS 1600 | Environmental Physics&
#Fundamentals of radiation, thermodynamics, and mechanics will be introduced and used to understand energy and mass transfers in natural and built environments. Students will describe, identify and use basic principles of physics to discuss and assess renewable energy systems and solve environmental physics problems, using a physics vocabulary and appropriately quantifying results. The course is offered in the spring semester as a flipped class, meeting twice weekly. The course is offered in the fall semester as a web-based, online course and covers the same material.#
&EAS 1700 | Evolution of the Earth and Life&
#This class covers events and organisms in the history of the Earth and its life, especially those that commonly appear in popular media such as documentaries, books, and science journalism. The class is intended for students of any background interested in an introductory exploration of how the Earth and life came to look the way they do and the science by which we study the geological past. Learn about movements of the continents and implications for climate and life; coevolution of life and the atmosphere; climate change through geologic time; and major patterns of biological evolution, including dinosaur diversification, mass extinctions, and human evolution. The course includes assignments to visit the Museum of the Earth and geological sites around the Cornell campus.#
&EAS 2250 | The Earth System&
#EAS 2250 provides a broad math-, physics-, and chemistry-based introduction to the earth sciences, including geology, paleontology, oceanography, and atmospheric science. Topics covered include formation of the Earth, the chemistry and physics of the Earth's interior, plate tectonics, weathering and erosion, soil development, stream and groundwater flow, volcanism and crustal deformation, the evolution of life, ocean and atmospheric structure, circulation and heat transport, ocean waves and tides, generation of storms, seawater chemistry, mineral and energy resources, and climate change.#
&EAS 2400 | Observing the Earth: Remote Sensing and GIS&
#While the environmental challenges and hazards facing society over the next decades are diverse and complex, the next generation of scientists and engineers can look forward to a steadily increasing family of space-based observations that will help us better understand the ongoing changes. This data can enable researchers to highlight potential problems and gain the attention of decision-makers, and to evaluate the efficacy of attempts at mitigation so that we can redirect our efforts into the most useful avenues. Examples of engineering solutions that require evaluation of their outcomes include management and maintenance of coastal infrastructure, flood control or dam-building, and efforts to change land cover/land use. In this course, we will study the key questions facing our planet today, and explore the use of relevant data from current and future satellite missions. We will introduce students to Geographical Information Systems (GIS) and other methods for viewing and manipulating data. We will build from analysis of individual images, including multispectral imagery, and extend to time-series analysis of both optical and microwave data. Students will design and present a capstone project involving satellite data analysis and interpretation.#
&EAS 2500 | Meteorological Observations and Instruments&
#Covers methods and principles of atmospheric measurements and observations including in situ surface, free-air, and remote systems. Students will gain practical experience in analysis of atmospheric data, and use of state-of-the-art instrumentation.#
&EAS 2680 | Climate and Global Warming&
#Familiarizes students from a range of disciplines with the basics and modern issues of climatology, such as what dictates the global and local climate, how to observe and measure it, the greenhouse effect and human-made climate change, natural climate variability and past climates. Also covers the carbon cycle, isotopes, climate models, and what our future climate might look like. Readings focus on deepening mechanistic understanding and recent scientific findings related to climate change.#
&EAS 3090 | Earth Materials&
#Materials of the solid Earth (minerals, rocks) record the formation and evolution of our planet and the solar systems. This course will prepare students to identify minerals, understand their significance as a record of fundamental processes for our planet, and other rocky worlds in the solar system. This course will introduce geochemical concepts that include: element formation in the solar nebula, thermodynamic and kinetic properties that control the formation and chemical diversity of minerals, the mineral and rock record of deep Earth and surface processes. The lectures will be complemented by labs where students will learn to identify minerals using crystallography and polarized microscopy techniques. The labs will also include an introduction to modern analytical methods such as Raman and infrared spectroscopy, scanning electron microscopy, mass spectrometry, with hands-on projects where the students will collect and interpret their own data.#
&EAS 3420 | Atmospheric Dynamics&
#Introduction to the basic equations and techniques used to understand motion in the atmosphere, with an emphasis on the space and time scales typical of storm systems (the synoptic scale). Derives the governing equations of atmospheric flow from first principles and applies them to middle latitude and tropical meteorology. Topics include balanced flow, atmospheric waves, circulation, and vorticity.#
&EAS 3520 | Synoptic Meteorology I&
#Study of weather map analysis and forecasting techniques by applying the principles of fluid and heat flow. Strengthens previously introduced meteorological concepts that are applied to forecasting midlatitude synoptic scale weather systems, such as cyclones, anticyclones, jet streams, fronts, and waves.#
&EAS 3530 | Physical Oceanography&
#Covers thermohaline and wind-driven circulation and surface-ocean boundary-layer dynamics. Mathematical expressions for describing conservation of momentum, mass, and heat in a fluid are used to explain the ocean's responses to wind and buoyancy forcing.#
&EAS 3880 | Global Geophysics&
#Covers global tectonics and the deep structure of the solid Earth as revealed by investigations of earthquakes, earthquake waves, the Earth's gravitational and magnetic fields, and heat flow. Students are highly encouraged to have either the math/phys prerequisites OR an introductory geologic sciences course before taking this class.#
&EAS 4040 | Geodynamics&
#Quantitative study of the deformation, heat transport, and melting processes that have shaped the evolution of the solid Earth. Familiar physical and chemical principles and concepts are applied to the study of plate tectonics, fluid dynamics, mantle convection, melting, and mountain building.#
&EAS 4150 | GPS: Theory and Design&
#Analysis of GPS operating principles and engineering practice with a culminating design exercise. GPS satellite orbital dynamics, navigation data modeling, position/navigation/timing solution algorithm, receiver and antenna characteristics, analysis of error and accuracy, differential GPS.#
&EAS 4370 | Field Geophysics&
#Fundamentals of subsurface imaging by geophysical methods as used in resource exploration and environmental investigations. Covers seismic, gravity, magnetics, resistivity, geodetic and ground-penetrating radar (GPR) techniques. Field exercises will allow students to collect such data near campus that is of local or regional societal relevance, analyze it, and communicate the results.#
&EAS 4561 | Isotope Geochemistry&
#Fundamentals of radiogenic, cosmogenic, and stable isotope geochemistry and application to a variety of Earth system problems including evolution of the crust and mantle, earth surface processes, climate, biosphere, global water, and elemental cycling. We will explore recent advances in the development of isotope tracers and instrument capabilities, evaluate model frameworks, and learn how to interpret isotope signatures in a variety of modern and paleo contexts.#
&EAS 4700 | Advanced Weather Forecasting and Analysis&
#Applied course focusing on weather forecasting and analysis techniques for various regions around the world. Lectures emphasize the application of student's knowledge of atmospheric dynamics, thermodynamics, and computer-data analysis to forecast the development and movement of multiscale weather systems. Students participate in weekly forecast discussions; write daily forecasts that include a synoptic discussion, quantitative precipitation forecasts, and severe weather outlook for the forecast region; and lead class discussion on assigned readings.#
&EAS 4710 | Introduction to Groundwater&
#Fresh water has become a limited resource in many parts of the world. In arid and semi-arid regions, groundwater levels are declining at unstainable levels. In several industrial areas, groundwater is contaminated and unsuitable as potable water. This course will address the sustainability and pollution of groundwater by first understanding the theory of saturated and unsaturated flow and contaminant transport under ideal conditions. Subsequently, we learn to simplify groundwater systems in complex subsurface environments to obtain practical solutions. At the end of the course, the learned material will be put in a broader context as they are affected by natural or human actions. Throughout the course, guest speakers will discuss topics of current interest related to water. This elective course is intended for seniors interested in subsurface water and solute transport applications to sustainable groundwater use and prevention of pollution. Well-prepared EAS, CEE and BEE juniors are welcome, too.#
&EAS 4790 | Paleobiology&
#Surveys the major groups of invertebrate organisms and their evolutionary histories, and the theoretical and practical principles of paleontology, from biostratigraphy to macroevolution. Intended to fill out the biological backgrounds of Earth and atmospheric science students concerning the nature and significance of the fossil record for their respective studies, and the paleontological backgrounds of biology students interested in ecology and evolution.#
&EAS 4920 | Undergraduate Research&
#Introduction to the techniques and philosophy of research in the earth sciences and an opportunity for undergraduates to participate in current faculty research projects. Topics chosen in consultation with, and guided by, a faculty member. A short written report is required, and outstanding projects are prepared for publication.#
&EAS 4940 | Special Topics in Earth and Atmospheric Sciences&
#The department teaches "trial" courses under this number. Offerings vary by semester and are advertised by the department before the beginning of the semester.#
&EAS 4960 | Internship Experience&
#Students with internship opportunities may be able to receive credit through this course.#
&EAS 4970 | Individual Study in Atmospheric Science&
#Topics are arranged at the beginning of the semester for individual study or for group discussions.#
&EAS 4980 | Teaching Experience in Earth and Atmospheric Sciences&
#The student assists in teaching an EAS course appropriate to his or her previous training. The student meets with a discussion or laboratory section, prepares course materials, grades assignments, and regularly discusses course objectives and teaching techniques with the faculty member in charge of the course.#
&EAS 5000 | Master Engineering Design Project&
#Project with significant engineering content that is required for the M.Eng. program.#
&EAS 5051 | Climate Dynamics&
#Discusses processes that determine climate and contribute to its change, including atmospheric radiation, ocean circulation, and atmospheric dynamics. Investigates contemporary climate change issues and discusses them in the context of natural variability of the system.#
&EAS 5060 | EAS Workshops on How to Succeed&
#No description available.#
&EAS 5090 | Earth Materials&
#Materials of the solid Earth (minerals, rocks) record the formation and evolution of our planet and the solar systems. This course will prepare students to identify minerals, understand their significance as a record of fundamental processes for our planet, and other rocky worlds in the solar system. This course will introduce geochemical concepts that include: element formation in the solar nebula, thermodynamic and kinetic properties that control the formation and chemical diversity of minerals, the mineral and rock record of deep Earth and surface processes. The lectures will be complemented by labs where students will learn to identify minerals using crystallography and polarized microscopy techniques. The labs will also include an introduction to modern analytical methods such as Raman and infrared spectroscopy, scanning electron microscopy, mass spectrometry, with hands-on projects where the students will collect and interpret their own data.#
&EAS 5420 | Atmospheric Dynamics&
#Introduction to the basic equations and techniques used to understand motion in the atmosphere, with an emphasis on the space and time scales typical of storm systems (the "synoptic" scale). Derives the governing equations of atmospheric flow from first principles and applies them to mid-latitude meteorology. Topics include balanced flow, atmospheric waves, vorticity, and baroclinic instability. Students taking this course at the graduate level (EAS 5420) will have to complete additional questions on the biweekly problem sets and on the prelim and final exams.#
&EAS 5850 | Global Geophysics&
#Covers global tectonics and the deep structure of the solid Earth as revealed by investigations of earthquakes, earthquake waves, the Earth's gravitational and magnetic fields, and heat flow. Students are highly encouraged to have either the math/phys prerequisites OR an introductory geologic sciences course before taking this class.#
&EAS 6370 | Field Geophysics&
#Fundamentals of subsurface imaging by geophysical methods as used in resource exploration and environmental investigations. Covers seismic, gravity, magnetics, resistivity, geodetic and ground-penetrating radar (GPR) techniques. Field exercises will allow students to collect such data near campus that is of local or regional societal relevance, analyze it, and communicate the results.#
&EAS 6710 | Introduction to Groundwater&
#Fresh water has become a limited resource in many parts of the world. In arid and semi-arid regions, groundwater levels are declining at unstainable levels. In several industrial areas, groundwater is contaminated and unsuitable as potable water. This course will address the sustainability and pollution of groundwater by first understanding the theory of saturated and unsaturated flow and contaminant transport under ideal conditions. Subsequently, we learn to simplify groundwater systems in complex subsurface environments to obtain practical solutions. At the end of the course, the learned material will be put in a broader context as they are affected by natural or human actions. Throughout the course, guest speakers will discuss topics of current interest related to water. This elective course is intended for graduate students interested in subsurface water and solute transport applications to sustainable groundwater use and prevention of pollution.#
&EAS 6755 | Finite Element Method: Theory and Applications in Mechanics and Multiphysics&
#This class is an intermediate-level course on the linear Finite Element Method (FEM) for graduate engineering students. The students will learn to: set up the strong formulation of mechanical, hydraulic, thermal, and coupled problems, write the variational formulation, discretize the weak form in space and time, choose a resolution algorithm, write an input file for a FEM software, and interpret numerical results. Applications will focus on climate change and energy. First, one-dimensional problems will be solved for one dependent variable, e.g., elongation, fluid flow, heat transfer. Second, hydro-mechanical equations for two-phase porous media will be introduced and applied to consolidation problems. Next, 2D space discretization and numerical integration will be explained and applied through simulation and analysis of problems of plane elasticity and seepage. The course will conclude with the modeling unsaturated porous media with applications to geological storage, evapo-transpiration, and subsidence.#
&EAS 6920 | Special Topics in Earth and Atmospheric Sciences&
#Study of topics in earth and atmospheric science that are more specialized or different from other courses. Special topics depend on staff and student interests.#
&EAS 7020 | Thesis Research&
#Thesis research for geological sciences graduate students.#
&EAS 7110 | Upper Atmospheric and Space Physics&
#Reading class for upper atmospheric physics.#
&EAS 7650 | Topics in Paleoecology&
#Advanced work on original investigations in paleoecology. Topics change from semester to semester. Contact the instructor for more information.#
&EAS 7910 | Atmospheric Science Seminar&
#No description available.#
&EAS 7930 | Earth Science Seminar&
#Seminar course for graduate students in geological sciences with topics in tectonics, seismology, petrology, and similar disciplines. Emphasis on mountain belts, but other topics entertained.#
&EAS 8500 | Master's Level Thesis Research in Atmospheric Science&
#Thesis research for atmospheric science master's students.#
&EAS 9500 | Graduate-Level Dissertation Research in Atmospheric Science&
#Dissertation research for atmospheric science Ph.D. students only before "A" exam has been passed.#
&EAS 9510 | Doctoral-Level Dissertation Research in Atmospheric Science&
#Dissertation research for atmospheric science Ph.D. students after "A" exam has been passed.#


$ECE | Electrical & Computer Engineering$
&ECE 2100 | Introduction to Circuits for Electrical and Computer Engineers&
#This course is an introduction to electronic circuits. We start with the basic quantities used to characterize circuit operation (like current, voltage, and power) and then enforce several physical laws to form the basis of our approach to circuit analysis. Networks comprising passive circuit elements such as resistors, inductors, and capacitors will be examined under constant dc, transient, and sinusoidal steady-state conditions. Active components including transistors and Op-Amps will be introduced and used to build simple amplifiers and switching power converters. Many of these ideas will be unified mathematically through the use of Laplace transforms and associated transfer functions. In the lab part of the course, we will learn how to use modern instruments to test circuits, and explore the concepts from lecture applied to real circuits. Finally, we will develop some simple modeling software in MATLAB to numerically predict the results from analysis and experiment.#
&ECE 2300 | Digital Logic and Computer Organization&
#This course provides an introduction to the design and implementation of digital circuits and microprocessors. Topics include transistor network design, Boolean algebra, combinational circuits, sequential circuits, finite state machine design, processor pipelines, and memory hierarchy. Design methodology using both discrete components and hardware description languages is covered in the laboratory portion of the course.#
&ECE 2400 | Computer Systems Programming&
#Computer systems programming involves developing software to connect the low-level computer hardware to high-level, user-facing application software. This course will provide a strong foundation in the principles, practices, and art of computer systems programming using the C and C++ programming languages. Students will learn procedural programming in C and how to theoretically analyze and practically implement basic data structures and algorithms. Students will transition to C++ to explore object-oriented, generic, functional, and concurrent programming before exploring advanced data structures and algorithms involving trees, tables, and graphs. Students will explore systems programming using the POSIX standard library. The course includes a series of programming assignments for students to put the principles they have learned into practice. For more information, see https://www.csl.cornell.edu/courses/ece2400.#
&ECE 2720 | Data Science for Engineers&
#An introduction to data science for engineers. The data science workflow: acquisition and cleansing, exploration and modeling, prediction and decision making, visualization and presentation. Tools for data science including numerical optimization, the Discrete Fourier Transform, Principal Component Analysis, and probability with a focus on statistical inference and correlation methods. Techniques for different steps in the workflow including outlier detection, filtering, regression, classification, and techniques for avoiding overfitting. Methods for combining domain-agnostic data analysis tools with the types of domain-specific knowledge that are common in engineering. Ethical considerations. Optional topics include classification via neural networks, outlier detection, and Markov chains. Programming projects in Python.#
&ECE 3100 | Introduction to Probability and Inference for Random Signals and Systems&
#Probability theory is a mathematical discipline that allows one to reason about uncertainty: it helps us to predict uncertain events, to make better decisions under uncertainty, and to design and build systems that must operate in uncertain environments. This course will serve as an introduction to the subject on the modeling and analysis of random phenomena and processes, including the basics of statistical inference in the presence of uncertainty. Topics include probability models, combinatorics, countable and uncountable sample spaces, discrete random variables, probability mass functions, continuous random variables, probability density functions, cumulative distribution functions, expectation and variance, independence and correlation, conditioning and Bayess rule, concentration inequalities, the multivariate Normal distribution, limit theorems (including the law of large numbers and the central limit theorem), Monte Carlo methods, random processes, and the basics of statistical inference. Applications to communications, networking, circuit design, computer engineering, finance, and voting will be discussed throughout the semester.#
&ECE 3140 | Embedded Systems&
#An introduction to the design of embedded systems, with an emphasis on understanding the interaction between hardware, software, and the physical world. Topics covered include assembly language programming, interrupts, I/O, concurrency management, scheduling, resource management, and real-time constraints.#
&ECE 3150 | Introduction to Microelectronics&
#This is a comprehensive undergraduate level course on microelectronics. Topics covered include basic semiconductor physics, electrons and holes in semiconductors, electrical transport in semiconductors, PN junctions and diodes, photodetectors and solar cells, Metal-Oxide-Semiconductor (MOS) capacitors, MOS field effect transistors (FETs), bipolar junction transistors (BJTs), large signal and small signal models of electronic devices, single stage amplifiers, multistage amplifiers, differential amplifiers, analog circuit analysis and design, high-frequency models of devices, high-frequency circuit analysis, digital logic and MOS logic devices, complimentary MOS (or CMOS) logic gates, fundamental trade-offs in high speed analog and digital circuit design. The coursework includes labs and a final project.#
&ECE 3200 | Foundations Machine Learning&
#No description available.#
&ECE 4070 | Physics of Semiconductors and Nanostructures&
#Covers basic solid state and semiconductor physics relevant for understanding electronic and optical devices. Topics include crystalline structures, bonding in atoms and solids, energy bands in solids, electron statistics and dynamics in energy bands, effective mass equation, carrier transport in solids, Boltzmann transport equation, semiconductor homo- and hetero-junctions, optical processes in semiconductors, electronic and optical properties of semiconductor nanostructures, semiconductor quantum wells, wires, and dots, electron transport in reduced dimensions, semiconductor lasers and optoelectronics, high-frequency response of electrons in solids and plasmons.#
&ECE 4150 | GPS: Theory and Design&
#Analysis of GPS operating principles and engineering practice with a culminating design exercise. GPS satellite orbital dynamics, navigation data modeling, position/navigation/timing solution algorithm, receiver and antenna characteristics, analysis of error and accuracy, differential GPS.#
&ECE 4160 | Fast Robots&
#The course focus is on systems level design and implementation of fast and dynamic autonomous robots. With the recent DIY movement, design of kinematic robots is largely becoming a software challenge. In dynamic robots, however, any latency or noise can be detrimental. We will design a fast autonomous car, explore dynamic behaviors, acting forces, sensors, and reactive control on an embedded processor, as well as the benefit of partial off-board computation. Students will learn how to derive design specifications from abstract problem descriptions and gain familiarity with rapid prototyping techniques, system debugging, system evaluation, and online dissemination of work.#
&ECE 4180 | Autonomous Mobile Robots&
#Creating robots capable of performing complex tasks autonomously requires one to address a variety of different challenges such as sensing, perception, control, planning, mechanical design, and interaction with humans. In recent years many advances have been made toward creating such systems, both in the research community (different robot challenges and competitions) and in industry (industrial, military, and domestic robots). This course gives an overview of the challenges and techniques used for creating autonomous mobile robots. Topics include sensing, localization, mapping, path planning, motion planning, obstacle and collision avoidance, and multi-robot control.#
&ECE 4210 | Network Systems and Games&
#No description available.#
&ECE 4271 | Evolutionary Processes, Evolutionary Algorithms, Evolutionary Games&
#Course addresses a collection of topics relevant to the modeling, analysis, simulation, and optimization of large complex multi-agent systems. Course provides a standalone introduction to discrete-time Markov chains; covers the Metropolis algorithm and its generalizations; gives an introduction to the theory of genetic algorithms; and provides an introduction to evolutionary game theory, including the ESS concept, replicator dynamics, and dynamic probabilistic approaches.#
&ECE 4361 | Nanofabrication and Characterization of Electronics Laboratory&
#This course provides an introduction to nanofabrication technologies with emphasis on Si-based integrated circuits manufacturing as well as modern electronics based on GaN, 2D materials etc. The lab, primarily taught in the Cornell Teaching Cleanroom, includes basic fabrication steps of lithography, metallization, plasma etching and annealing. A series of devices will be fabricated: solar cells, MOS capacitors and transistors, 2D transistors, GaN HEMTs and LEDs.#
&ECE 4370 | Photonics: Fundamentals and Devices&
#Introduction to optical waveguides and photonic devices. Review of optical wave propagation in uniform media and at interfaces. Gaussian beams and diffraction. Modes, dispersion, and fundamental relations/symmetries. Interferometers and resonators. Guided waves in optical fibers and planar dielectric systems. Perturbation theory, coupling of modes, adiabatic variation, and parallels to quantum phenomena. Electro- and acousto-optics. Survey of system applications, including photonic interconnects and quantum technologies. Numerical methods, and project design of planar optical components.#
&ECE 4380 | Electromagnetic and Optical Metamaterials&
#Introductory Senior-level course on electromagnetic and optical metamaterials. The properties of matter can be molded and tailored on subwavelength spatial scales yielding 'metamaterials' with properties very different from naturally occurring materials, thereby opening up new directions for applications. The course introduces the electromagnetic and optical properties of surface plasmons and polaritons, artificial magnetic materials, negative-index materials, nanostructured optical materials, etc. The course also discusses the applications of these materials in diverse areas including electromagnetic cloaking and invisibility, stealth technologies, optical super-lensing, bio-chemical sensing, conformal optics, meta-surfaces, and non-reciprocal devices.#
&ECE 4520 | Power Systems and Market Operations&
#Examines the operations of electric power systems, the smart grid, and electricity markets. Topics include modeling of power systems, power flow analysis, economic dispatch, optimal power flow, unit commitments, electricity markets, demand response, smart grid technology, and transactive energy.#
&ECE 4590 | Thin-Film Materials Science&
#Provides fundamental information on the deposition, properties, reaction, and evaluation of thin films.#
&ECE 4670 | Digital Communication System Design&
#The goal of this course is to understand how state-of-the-art digital communication systems are designed and why they are designed in the way they are. The course will cover communication theory, transceiver algorithms that enable reliable communication, wireless channels, and modern communication standards (such as 3GPP LTE and WiFi). The students will design a working audio-band communication system that relies on orthogonal frequency-division multiplexing (OFDM).#
&ECE 4740 | Introduction to Digital (VLSI) Design&
#An introduction to digital very large-scale integration (VLSI) design from architectural considerations down to the layout level. Lecture, labs, and homework topics emphasize disciplined synchronous VLSI design and include topics of CMOS logic, layout, and timing; computer-aided design and analysis tools; electrical and performance considerations.#
&ECE 4760 | Digital Systems Design Using Microcontrollers&
#Design of real-time digital systems using microprocessor-based embedded controllers. Students working in pairs design, debug, and construct several small systems that illustrate and employ the techniques of digital system design acquired in previous courses. The content focuses on the laboratory work. The lectures are used primarily for the introduction of examples, description of specific modules to be designed, and instruction in the hardware and high-level design tools to be employed.#
&ECE 4840 | Introduction to Controlled Fusion: Principles and Technology&
#Introduction to the physical principles and various engineering aspects underlying power generation by controlled fusion. Topics include: fuels and conditions required for fusion power and basic fusion-reactor concepts, fundamental aspects of plasma physics relevant to fusion plasmas and basic engineering problems for a fusion reactor, and an engineering analysis of proposed magnetic and/or inertial confinement fusion-reactor designs.#
&ECE 4910 | Principles of Neurophysiology&
#Laboratory-oriented course designed to teach the concepts and tools of cellular neurophysiology through hands-on experience with extracellular and intracellular electrophysiological techniques, and computer acquisition and analysis of laboratory results. Students explore signal transmission in the nervous system by examining the cellular basis of resting and action potentials, and synaptic transmission and optogenetic control of behavior and physiology. Lecture time is used to review nervous system physiology, introduce laboratory exercises, discuss lab results and primary research papers, and for presentation of additional experimental preparations and methods. Invertebrate preparations are used as model systems.#
&ECE 4920 | ECE Technical Writing&
#Technical writing aimed at having students write up their ECE projects in a formal fashion, with a view to publication. Projects may be existing, or may be created as part of the independent study, but the writing requirement will match the current College technical writing requirement.#
&ECE 4980 | Supervised Teaching Experience&
#This course is designed to give qualified undergraduates experience through actual involvement in planning and teaching courses under the supervision of department faculty. Students cannot receive both pay and credit for the same hours of preparation and teaching. Enrollment is with permission of instructor only. One credit of ECE 4980 is equivalent to 5 weekly work hours, including both student contact hours and preparatory/other time.#
&ECE 4990 | International Research Internship&
#Seminar, special interest, or temporary course.#
&ECE 4999 | Electrical and Computer Engineering Independent Projects&
#Individual study or directed reading in connection with a special engineering problem chosen by the student after consultation with the faculty member directing the project. An engineering report on the project is required. Students must make individual arrangements with a faculty sponsor.#
&ECE 5010 | Professional Seminar for M.Eng. Students&
#This seminar introduces students to professional issues that are important as they begin their professional career. Topics include M.Eng. ECE project options; professional expectations; project planning and management; effective teamwork; technical writing and communications; impact of environmental, economic, and societal constraints in design; entrepreneurship possibilities; and career planning issues.#
&ECE 5090 | Principles of Neurophysiology&
#Laboratory-oriented course designed to teach the concepts and tools of cellular neurophysiology through hands-on experience with extracellular and intracellular electrophysiological techniques, and computer acquisition and analysis of laboratory results. Students explore signal transmission in the nervous system by examining the cellular basis of resting and action potentials, and synaptic transmission. Lecture time is used to review nervous system physiology, introduce laboratory exercises, discuss lab results and primary research papers, and for presentation of additional experimental preparations and methods. Invertebrate preparations are used as model systems. Students must complete and additional semester-long project. The project includes exploration of experimental neuroscience questions not covered in the undergraduate laboratory class, novel, low cost instrumentation design, computational approaches to nervous system function and development of active learning activities. It will require a project proposal early in the semester, and a final project presentation and research journal style paper at the end of the semester.#
&ECE 5130 | Systems Analysis Behavior and Optimization&
#This is an advanced course in the application of analytical methodologies and tools to the analysis and optimization of complex systems. On completion of this course, students should be able to use probability and statistics as a modeling and analysis tool for systems exhibiting uncertainty; be able to use algorithms and dynamic programming to model and optimize systems with a recursive structure; be able to use optimization tools to optimize complex systems and tune parameters.#
&ECE 5160 | Fast Robots&
#The course focus is on systems level design and implementation of fast and dynamic autonomous robots. With the recent DIY movement, design of kinematic robots is largely becoming a software challenge. In dynamic robots, however, any latency or noise can be detrimental. We will design a fast autonomous car, explore dynamic behaviors, acting forces, sensors, and reactive control on an embedded processor, as well as the benefit of partial off-board computation. Students will learn how to derive design specifications from abstract problem descriptions and gain familiarity with rapid prototyping techniques, system debugging, system evaluation, and online dissemination of work.#
&ECE 5210 | Network Systems and Games&
#No description available.#
&ECE 5260 | Graph-Based Data Science for Networked Systems&
#The goal of this course is to introduce data structural and computational models that are indexed by the irregular support of a graph. The graph represents the network that couples the dynamics of many agents, or it can be a more abstract Bayesian graphical model that explains how observations are conditionally dependent. The course will start from introducing basic concepts in graph theory followed by an introduction to random graphs models. This part will be followed by network dynamical models that model the observations from these processes. Bayesian graphical models will be briefly covered as a more general statistical abstraction and computational framework to perform inferences. The course will then introduce the students to the emerging field of graph signal processing, a theory that generalizes digital and image processing to graph signals.#
&ECE 5271 | Evolutionary Processes, Evolutionary Algorithms, Evolutionary Games&
#Course addresses a collection of topics relevant to the modeling, analysis, simulation, and optimization of large complex multi-agent systems. Course provides a standalone introduction to discrete-time Markov chains; covers the Metropolis algorithm and its generalizations; gives an introduction to the theory of genetic algorithms; and provides an introduction to evolutionary game theory, including the ESS concept, replicator dynamics, and dynamic probabilistic approaches.#
&ECE 5340 | Photonics: Fundamentals and Devices&
#Introduction to optical waveguides and photonic devices. Review of optical wave propagation in uniform media and at interfaces. Gaussian beams and diffraction. Modes, dispersion, and fundamental relations/symmetries. Interferometers and resonators. Guided waves in optical fibers and planar dielectric systems. Perturbation theory, coupling of modes, adiabatic variation, and parallels to quantum phenomena. Electro-and acousto-optics. Survey of system applications, including photonic interconnects and quantum technologies. Numerical methods, and project design of planar optical components.#
&ECE 5350 | Semiconductor Physics&
#No description available.#
&ECE 5380 | Electromagnetic and Optical Metamaterials&
#Introductory Senior-level course on electromagnetic and optical metamaterials. The properties of matter can be molded and tailored on subwavelength spatial scales yielding 'metamaterials' with properties very different from naturally occurring materials, thereby opening up new directions for applications. The course introduces the electromagnetic and optical properties of surface plasmons and polaritons, artificial magnetic materials, negative-index materials, nanostructured optical materials, etc. The course also discusses the applications of these materials in diverse areas including electromagnetic cloaking and invisibility, stealth technologies, optical super-lensing, bio-chemical sensing, conformal optics, meta-surfaces, and non-reciprocal devices.#
&ECE 5550 | Power Systems and Market Operations&
#Examines the operations of electric power systems, the smart grid, and electricity markets. Topics include modeling of power systems, power flow analysis, economic dispatch, optimal power flow, unit commitments, electricity markets, demand response, smart grid technology, and transactive energy.#
&ECE 5670 | Digital Communications&
#Principles of modeling communication baseband and passband channels. Methods for communicating in the presence of intersymbol interference, noise, channel uncertainty, and asynchrony. Design, in software, of a transmitters and receivers to communicate over audio-band and RF channels.#
&ECE 5725 | Design with Embedded Operating Systems&
#Design of microcontroller based systems using embedded Linux. Student teams design and debug example solutions on a target microcontroller (for example, Raspberry Pi) during lab sessions. Emphasis will be on application and Linux programming skills, processor and microcontroller architecture with some discussion of hardware interfaces. Students create a final, end-of-semester project using the microcontroller platform and development techniques discussed during the semester.#
&ECE 5730 | Digital Systems Design Using Microcontrollers&
#Design of real-time digital systems using microprocessor-based embedded controllers. Students working in pairs design, debug, and construct several small systems that illustrate and employ the techniques of digital system design acquired in previous courses. The content focuses on the laboratory work. The lectures are used primarily for the introduction of examples, description of specific modules to be designed, and instruction in the hardware and high-level design tools to be employed.#
&ECE 5744 | Introduction to Digital (VLSI) Design&
#This graduate-level course provides an introduction to digital very large-scale integration (VLSI) design from architectural considerations down to the layout level. Lecture, labs, and homework topics emphasize disciplined synchronous VLSI design and include topics of CMOS logic, layout, and timing; computer-aided design and analysis tools; electrical and performance considerations.#
&ECE 5772 | Autonomous Mobile Robots&
#Creating robots capable of performing complex tasks autonomously requires one to address a variety of different challenges such as sensing, perception, control, planning, mechanical design, and interaction with humans. In recent years many advances have been made toward creating such systems, both in the research community (different robot challenges and competitions) and in industry (industrial, military, and domestic robots). This course gives an overview of the challenges and techniques used for creating autonomous mobile robots. Topics include sensing, localization, mapping, path planning, motion planning, obstacle and collision avoidance, and multi-robot control.#
&ECE 5840 | Introduction to Controlled Fusion: Principles and Technology&
#Introduction to the physical principles and various engineering aspects underlying power generation by controlled fusion. Topics include: fuels and conditions required for fusion power and basic fusion-reactor concepts, fundamental aspects of plasma physics relevant to fusion plasmas and basic engineering problems for a fusion reactor, and an engineering analysis of proposed magnetic and/or inertial confinement fusion-reactor designs.#
&ECE 5880 | Energy Seminar II&
#Energy Seminars will continue to explore energy-related topics of emerging, contemporary and historical interest. An abbreviated list of subjects explored in the seminars includes: global energy resources, energy generation technologies (present and future), energy storage options, environmental impacts and climate change mitigation, energy policy, and energy delivery economics and systems. Seminar speakers will be distinguished practicing engineers and executives from industry and government as well as faculty members from several departments at Cornell, and other academic institutions. Students from any department in Engineering or the Physical Sciences should find these talks informative.#
&ECE 5996 | Master of Engineering Design Project II&
#Two-semester Design Project: must enroll in both semesters; students will receive a letter grade for each individual semester. For students enrolled in M.Eng. (Electrical and Computer Engineering) degree program. Uses real engineering situations to present fundamentals of engineering design. Each professor is assigned a section for the fall and spring. Students who do not complete the Design Project in the spring receive a grade only for the work completed up to the point of the required submission date, which is the last day of Finals Week. Students must then enroll for the summer with the ECE M.Eng. director to complete the work remaining for the design project.#
&ECE 5997 | Independent Study&
#Independent study supervised by a faculty member in Electrical and Computer Engineering. A final report or exam is required. Students must make individual arrangements with a faculty sponsor.#
&ECE 5998 | Directed Research&
#Research directed by a faculty member in Electrical and Computer Engineering. A final report or exam is required. Students must make individual arrangements with a faculty sponsor.#
&ECE 5999 | MEng Technical Internship&
#This course offers M.Eng. students the opportunity to receive credit for ECE relevant work occurring as part of a summer (or semester) internship. Normally taken in the semester following the internship, students in the course will be required to write a detailed report describing the ECE related technical work performed during internship.#
&ECE 6550 | Advanced High-Speed and RF Integrated Circuits&
#Principles of analog integrated circuit design in the Giga-Hertz frequency range. This course covers the fundamental understanding of high-frequency circuit building blocks such as low noise amplifiers, mixers, oscillators, phase locked loops, frequency synthesizers, clock and data recoveries, and power amplifiers. Additionally, because some of the traditional microwave building blocks such as transmission lines and distributed circuit elements are essential parts of today's high speed integrated circuits, the course briefly covers them. Throughout the course, a systematic review of advanced wireless and wireline applications is covered. The course emphasizes physical understanding and intuitive design methods as well as qualitative techniques and computer simulations. The course has collaborative class projects, based on real-world problems.#
&ECE 6660 | Control and Optimization of Information Networks&
#Introduction to current research directions in networking featuring the Internet. Assumes basic knowledge of signals and systems as well as random processes. Necessary tools from optimization, dynamical systems, and related economic theory are introduced. Research topics may include layering, routing, medium access control, flow control, and peer-to-peer networks. Students are expected to hand in homework assignments, discuss one set of papers in class, and participate in a course project.#
&ECE 6690 | Computer Analysis of Biomed Images&
#Powerful imaging modalities with attending computer image processing methods are evolving for the evaluation of health and the detection of disease. This course focuses on the quantitative analysis of such images and Computer Aided Diagnosis (CAD), i.e., the automatic identification and classification of abnormalities by the computer.#
&ECE 6745 | Complex Digital ASIC Design&
#Principles and practices involved in the design, implementation, testing, and evaluation of complex standard-cell ASIC chips using automated state-of-the-art CAD tools. Topics include hardware description languages; CMOS logic, state, and interconnect fundamentals; chip design methodologies; automated cell-based design; CAD algorithms; details of accurately modeling ASIC delay, energy, and area; robustness issues; testing, verification, and debugging; power distribution and clocking; packaging and I/O. Includes a six-week open ended project where small groups of students design, implement, test, and evaluate an interesting technique in computer architecture using functional-, microarchitectural-, registertransfer-, and layout-level modeling.#
&ECE 6960 | Special Topics in Electrical and Computer Engineering&
#Seminar, special interest, or temporary course.#
&ECE 7210 | Network Systems and Games&
#No description available.#
&ECE 7920 | Thesis Research&
#For students enrolled in master's or doctoral program. Each professor is assigned a section number. To register, see roster for appropriate six-digit course ID numbers.#


$ECON | Economics$
&ECON 1001 | Principles of Micro-Economics Supplement&
#Reviews lecture material presented in ECON 1110 lectures; provides problem-solving techniques, study tips, and additional problems to prepare for exams and problem sets; provides additional time for questions and discussion of concepts. Provides additional instruction for students who need reinforcement.#
&ECON 1002 | Principles of Macro-Economics Supplement&
#Reviews lecture material presented in ECON 1120 lectures; provides problem-solving techniques, study tips, and additional problems to prepare for exams and problem sets; provides additional time for questions and discussion of concepts. Provides additional instruction for students who need reinforcement.#
&ECON 1110 | Introductory Microeconomics&
#Explanation and evaluation of how the price system operates in determining what goods are produced, how goods are produced, who receives income, and how the price system is modified and influenced by private organizations and government policy.#
&ECON 1120 | Introductory Macroeconomics&
#Analysis of aggregate economic activity in relation to the level, stability, and growth of national income. Topics may include the determination and effects of unemployment, inflation, balance of payments, deficits, and economic development, and how these may be influenced by monetary, fiscal, and other policies.#
&ECON 2100 | Teaching and Learning Economics&
#This course teaches students what they need to know in order to be excellent course assistants (CA's) in economics courses at Cornell. We will meet for an hour each week to talk about how students learn economics, and how best to help them learn. Students in this course will get concrete guidance on what to do as a CA, and we'll discuss the research behind this guidance. Students will be expected to do some reading outside class and either write a research paper on economic education or develop new teaching materials that can be incorporated into an economics course. Students will also facilitate small group activities in lecture courses (3 hours per week) and help other students in the Economics Support Center (2 hours per week).#
&ECON 2300 | International Trade and Finance&
#Introduction to international economic principles and issues. Begins by surveying key topics such as the elements of comparative advantage, tariff and nontariff barriers, and multilateral institutions. The second part of the course treats selected topics in international finance, including exchange rates, balance of payments, and capital markets. Discusses current issues such as the effects of trade liberalization, trade and economic growth, and instability in international capital markets. Designed as a less technical introduction to concepts developed at a more advanced level in AEM 4300 and ECON 4510-ECON 4520.#
&ECON 3030 | Intermediate Microeconomic Theory&
#The pricing processes in a private enterprise economy are analyzed under varying competitive conditions, and their role in the allocation of resources and the functional distribution of national income is considered.#
&ECON 3040 | Intermediate Macroeconomic Theory&
#Introduces the theory of national income and determination and economic growth in alternative models of the national economy. Examines the interaction and relation of these models to empirical aggregate economic data. Reviews national accounts, output and employment determination, price stability and economic growth, in the context of alternative government policy programs and the impact of globalization.#
&ECON 3110 | Probability Models and Inference for the Social Sciences&
#This course provides an introduction to probability and parametric inference. Topics include: random variables, standard distributions, the law of large numbers, the central limit theorem, likelihood-based estimation, sampling distributions and hypothesis testing.#
&ECON 3120 | Applied Econometrics&
#Introduction to the theory and application of econometric techniques. Emphasis is on both development of techniques and applications of econometrics to economic questions. Topics include estimation and inference in bivariate and multiple regression models, instrumental variables, regression with qualitative information, heteroskedasticity, and serial correlation. Students are expected to apply techniques through regular empirical exercises with economic data.#
&ECON 3140 | Econometrics&
#Introduction to the theory and application of econometric techniques. Emphasis is on foundations and development of econometric models, focusing on how a theoretical economic model can be placed into a statistical framework where data is used for the purposes of prediction/forecasting, measurement, and/or testing of economic theory. Topics include estimation and inference in bivariate and multiple regression models, instrumental variables, regression with qualitative information, heteroskedasticity, serial correlation.#
&ECON 3280 | Introduction to Political Economy for Public Policy&
#This course will provide an overview of recent empirical research in political economy, which applies the toolbox of economic and econometric analysis to the study of politics. The focus will be on the politics of the policymaking process.  It will cover the following topics: (1) Voters' behavior; (2) Politicians' behavior; (3) Information and mass media; (4) Political distortions and capture; (5) Political institutions. The course will be based on the reading of research papers and the in-depth discussion of their implications for public policy.#
&ECON 3430 | Compensation, Incentives, and Productivity&
#Examines topics in labor economics of particular relevance to individual managers and firms. Representative topics include recruitment, screening, and hiring strategies; compensation (including retirement pensions and other benefits); training, turnover, and the theory of human capital; incentive schemes and promotions; layoffs, downsizing, and buyouts; teamwork; and internal labor markets. Focuses on labor-related business problems using the analytic tools of economic theory and should appeal to students with strong quantitative skills who are contemplating careers in general business, consulting, and human resource management as well as in economics.#
&ECON 3475 | Visualizing Economics: Introducing Basic Economic Concepts with Visual Arts&
#This course proposes a new and innovative approach to learning about economics. If you want to learn in a different manner, if you are attracted to visualizations in general, this course is for you. This course will challenge preconceptions about what economics is. The goal is to use visual arts to illustrate basic economic concepts that are general, and demonstrate how these tools can be used to analyze and understand a variety of human and social phenomena. The idea of using arts to teach a non-arts related topic stems from recent research in neurology suggesting that creative arts aid learning and memorizing. The course focuses on the core concepts and ideas in economics and is meant to be widely accessible.#
&ECON 3550 | Economics of Developing Countries&
#The goal of this course is to expand students' understanding of the economics of developing countries. We will address questions like: why do some countries grow quickly and others slowly? What factors prevent countries, households, and individuals from escaping the cycle of poverty? How do policymakers balance economic growth and environmental sustainability? Why don't financial markets work well in most developing countries, and do informal institutions fill the gap? How do we analyze the challenges facing small-scale farming households, and how do decisions by those households influence migration, labor markets, and the growth of industry? How do we evaluate policies and programs in order to understand what works for development? The approach in this course will be primarily microeconomic, although a basic understanding of macroeconomics is important for some topics. Emphasis will be on theory, real-world examples, and reading and interpreting research and policy papers.#
&ECON 3670 | Behavioral Economics and Public Policy&
#Standard economic theory assumes that individuals are rational decision-makers; however, that is often not the case in the real world. Behavioral economics uses findings from psychology to determine ways in which individuals are systematically irrational to improve upon existing models. The first part of this course reviews these theories, while the second part of the course focuses on how these findings have been used to design better education, health, and tax policies as well as many others.#
&ECON 3711 | The Economics and Regulation of Risky Health Behaviors&
#Risky health behaviors such as drug abuse, alcohol abuse, cigarette smoking, risky sex, poor diet, physical inactivity, and self-harm are responsible for hundreds of thousands of preventable deaths and impose billions of dollars in medical care costs each year in the United States. This course teaches the economic approach to studying risky health behaviors. The research literature on the economic causes and correlates of risky health behaviors will be studied. Numerous policies to modify risky health behaviors, such as the minimum legal drinking age and recreational marijuana laws, will be debated in class. Students will also participate in a policy wargame on the subject of taxes on sugar-sweetened beverages.#
&ECON 3770 | Inequality in U.S. Higher Education&
#Is the U.S. college system a great equalizer or a cause of growing inequality? Improved access to higher education has brought millions of Americans into the middle class, and yet rising selectivity has meant that a disproportionate share of the economic elite come from a few top colleges. This course will explore the three big parts of the college experience --- (1) admissions and the college-going decision; (2) education while in college; and (3) college completion and labor market entry --- and ask how each part contributes to inequality in economic outcomes. Lectures and readings will focus on simple economic theories of higher education as well as the empirical methods used to test these theories.#
&ECON 3825 | Networks II: Market Design&
#Networks II builds on its prerequisite course and continues to examine how each of the computing, economic, sociological and natural worlds are connected and how the structure of these connections affects these worlds. In this course, we will construct mathematical models for and analyze networked settings, allowing us to both make predictions about behavior in such systems, as well as reason about how to design such systems to exhibit some desirable behavior. Throughout, we will draw on real-world examples such as social networks, peer-to-peer filesharing, Internet markets, and crowdsourcing, that illustrate these phenomena.#
&ECON 3860 | Resource Economics&
#AEM 4500/ECON 3860 introduces students to the economics of renewable and nonrenewable natural resources. Topics covered include the valuation and use of land; water economics, management, and conservation; the extraction and management of nonrenewable resources such as minerals, rare earth elements, and energy resources; renewable and nonrenewable sources of energy; forest management; fishery economics; groundwater; natural resource markets, demand, and supply; and sustainability. Students will learn how to use dynamic models to analyze decision-making over time, and to solve dynamic optimization problems analytically and numerically. Students will also learn how to analyze and explain the intuition and logic behind the theory and concepts. Students will apply the methods, quantitative tools, and concepts to analyze natural resource issues at global and local levels; to introspectively reflect on their own lives and future aspirations; and to draw lessons and implications for leadership, management, and policy. A solid background in calculus is required.#
&ECON 3865 | Environmental Economics&
#This class will focus on the role of the environment in the theory and practice of economics. It will make use of microeconomic analysis at the intermediate level and will incorporate real-world examples. It examines market failure, externalities, benefit-cost analysis, nonmarket valuation techniques, and cost-effective policy instruments.#
&ECON 4020 | Game Theory I&
#Studies mathematical models of conflict and cooperation in situations of uncertainty (about nature and about decision makers).#
&ECON 4210 | Money and Credit&
#A systematic treatment of the determinants of the money supply and the volume of credit. Economic analysis of credit markets and financial institutions in the United States.#
&ECON 4270 | State and Local Public Finance&
#This course provides an introduction to state and local public finance. The course has two goals: first, to provide institutional detail about U.S. state and local governments and their policies, and, second, to use economic theory to analyze public policy issues that arise in the state and local government setting. The course is divided into eight parts. Parts I and II provide background by reviewing key theoretical concepts in public finance and public choice: Part I covers the normative economic theory of the role of government in a market economy and Part II covers some standard positive theories of policy-making. Part III introduces the theory of fiscal federalism, which seeks to provide guidance on the appropriate role of state and local governments. Parts IV and V discuss different ways in which the provision of state and local goods and services are financed: Part IV deals with non-tax sources of finance and Part V covers commonly used taxes. Part VI explains the budget process of state and local governments. Part VII describes how three of the most important state and local government responsibilities are organized: education, transportation, and health and welfare. Finally, Part VIII discusses state and local government policies towards residential and business development.#
&ECON 4280 | Applied Political Economy&
#This course will provide an overview of recent empirical research in political economy, which applies the toolbox of economic and econometric analysis to the study of politics. It will cover the following topics: (1) Voters' behavior; (2) Politicians' behavior; (3) Information and mass media; (4) Political distortions and capture; (5) Political institutions. The course will be based on the reading of research papers and the in-depth discussion of their theories, methods, results, and implications.#
&ECON 4600 | Economics of Risk and Insurance: Decision Making Under Risk and Insurance Demand&
#The course will cover foundations of modern theory of decision making under risk. The first part of the course will cover the functioning of financial markets with focus on asset pricing. The main part of the course will focus on how consumers perceive and evaluate risk, as well as issues arising from asymmetric information, such as adverse selection and moral hazard. The latter part of the course will discuss the functioning of various insurance markets and welfare implications of potential policy interventions.#
&ECON 4620 | Industrial Organization: A Computational Approach&
#This course takes a game theoretic and computational approach to the study of firms, markets, and competition. Topics include firms' pricing, product, and investment decisions in the face of competition. For each topic, the course covers theory and both analytical and computational approaches.#
&ECON 4660 | Behavioral Economics&
#This course introduces students to behavioral economics, a subfield of economics that incorporates insights from psychology and other social sciences into economics. The course reviews some of the standard assumptions made in economics, and examines evidence on how human behavior systematically departs from these assumptions. The course then investigates alternative models of human decision making, and assesses to what extent these alternative models help improve economic analyses.#
&ECON 4903 | Quantitative Analysis of Economic Data&
#The course will appeal to students who have strong quantitative skills and would like to see applications of economic theory to analyze issues prominent in major public debates. Currently, we offer a very limited number of advanced courses that require students to do independent research, discuss their ideas in teams, present their work, and write a research proposal.#
&ECON 4997 | Cross-Cultural Work Experiences&
#This independent study course offers economics majors (i.e., undergraduates whose applications to affiliate with the economics major have been approved) an opportunity to reflect on concepts from economics as they were encountered and applied in a recent internship. Students write a short paper describing their work experience and how it connects to the educational objectives of the economics major.#
&ECON 4999 | Independent Study in Economics&
#Independent study.#
&ECON 6100 | Microeconomic Theory II&
#Topics in consumer and producer theory, equilibrium models and their application, externalities and public goods, intertemporal choice, simple dynamic models and resource depletion, choice under uncertainty.#
&ECON 6110 | Microeconomic Theory III&
#Topics in Non-Cooperative Game Theory.#
&ECON 6140 | Macroeconomics II&
#Covers the following topics: dynamic programming; stochastic growth; search models; cash-in-advance models; real business-cycle models; labor indivisibilities and lotteries; heterogeneous agents models; optimal fiscal and monetary policy; sustainable plans; and endogenous growth.#
&ECON 6200 | Econometrics II&
#A continuation of ECON 6190 covering statistics: estimation theory, least squares methods, method of maximum likelihood, generalized method of moments, theory of hypothesis testing, asymptotic test theory, and nonnested hypothesis testing; and econometrics: the general linear model, generalized least squares, specification tests, instrumental variables, dynamic regression models, linear simultaneous equation models, nonlinear models, and applications.#
&ECON 6591 | Empirical Strategies for Policy Research II&
#This course is the second of a two-course sequence. Both PUBPOL 6090 and this course are, for the most part, targeted at students looking to do empirical research into the effects of some X on some Y. Both courses require students to complete problem sets that involve "hands-on" exercises – some based on real data and some using Monte Carlo simulations. The hope is that this "learning by doing" will reinforce what is taught in class. Usually, the first course covers core methods, specifically regression adjustment, matching and instrumental variables. This second course covers additional topics in matching (we will touch on machine learning methods in the process), regression discontinuity designs, panel data methods, and mediation analysis.#
&ECON 6990 | Readings in Economics&
#Independent study.#
&ECON 7010 | Urban and Real Estate Economics&
#This course explores links between urbanization and real estate markets. High downtown rents reflect the benefits of proximity to other companies and natural features like port facilities. High housing costs reflect proximity to jobs and the lure of urban amenities. At the same time, segregation and congestion are often exacerbated by urbanization, the costs of which are seen in inequality, crime, pollution, and traffic jams. Urban real estate markets are also affected by local government policy, including enforcement of property rights, zoning, tax and subsidy programs. Shrinking rust belt cities and work from home threaten to undermine urban real estate markets, while volatility and uncertainty contributes to mispricing. These and related ideas will be explored drawing on context from countries around the world.#
&ECON 7115 | Job Search Models&
#No description available.#
&ECON 7300 | Applied Bayesian Time Series Methods&
#The course introduces students to Bayesian time series methods. Students will learn how to make likelihood-based inference about unobserved quantities, e.g. model parameters, policy impacts or future outcomes, conditional on the observed data. Applications include structural vector autoregressions, state space models and linearized dynamic stochastic general equilibrium macro models. Student will become familiar with numerical posterior simulation techniques such as Gibbs sampling and the Metropolis-Hasting algorithm. The course is useful for any students interested in empirical work that involves time series and/or structural likelihood-based estimation.#
&ECON 7325 | Firm Dynamics and Aggregate Productivity&
#This course focuses on ﬁrm dynamics, causes of size and productivity differences as well as patterns of growth, entry, and exit over the life cycle. It also studies how ﬁrms interact through production networks, the economic forces that shape these relationships, and the consequences for aggregate outcomes.#
&ECON 7430 | Seminar in Labor Economics II&
#Includes reading and discussion of selected topics in labor economics. Stresses applications of economic theory and econometrics to the labor market and human resource areas.#
&ECON 7455 | Local Labor Markets: Disparities and Remedies&
#Since the 1980s, American cities have exhibited increasingly divergent trends. This "Great Divergence" has had profound effects on local employment, income, political preferences, health outcomes, and intergenerational mobility. As more detailed data become available, recent research seeks to uncover the causes of this divergence and evaluate how policy interventions might mitigate its negative effects. Building on this research, this course explores recent advancements at the crossroads of labor and spatial economics. It begins by examining the growing disparities between cities and regions in terms of productivity, labor market opportunities, and amenities, in several countries. It then investigates the rationale behind place-based policies and their potential to stimulate local development. Finally, the course will provide students with essential tools and theories to study the sorting of workers and firms over space and to understand its implications for economic growth and inequality.#
&ECON 7661 | Microeconomics of International Development II&
#This course is an extension of AEM 7620/ECON 7660 and will cover current microeconomic issues of developing countries including but not limited to factors influencing human capital accumulation (e.g. health, education), contracting and firm structure, credit and saving, and behavioral economics and development. Most lectures will begin with applied theory and then discuss leading papers on that topic. The course is also designed with a focus on empirical methods and testing theories with data. Finally, the course contains classes on how to prepare for field work in order to provide a foundation for many of the practical skills needed to move a project forward.#
&ECON 7841 | Econometrics Workshop&
#Research workshop featuring guest lecturers.#
&ECON 7842 | Microeconomic Theory Workshop&
#Research workshop featuring guest lecturers.#
&ECON 7843 | Industrial Organization Workshop&
#Research workshop featuring guest lecturers.#
&ECON 7845 | Workshop in Labor Economics&
#Research workshop featuring guests lecturers. Presentations of completed papers and work in progress by faculty members, advanced graduate students, and speakers from other universities. Focuses on the formulation, design, and execution of dissertations.#
&ECON 7846 | S.C. Tsiang Macroeconomics Workshop&
#Research workshop featuring guest lecturers.#
&ECON 7847 | Development Workshop&
#Research workshop featuring guest lecturers.#
&ECON 7848 | Public Economics Workshop&
#Research workshop featuring guest lecturers.#
&ECON 7849 | Behavioral Economics Workshop&
#Research workshop featuring guest lecturers.#
&ECON 7851 | Third Year Research Seminar II&
#Ph.D. students in the Field of Economics are required to take this year-long research seminar, and receive a grade of Satisfactory, in order to remain in good standing in the Ph.D. program. Students present and discuss each second-year paper, which must be completed before the semester opens and Economics 7850 meets for the first time. Students also present at least two additional papers or paper plans. These are intended to be part of the core of the student's thesis proposal, which must be given as part of the student's A Exam prior to the start of the fourth year of graduate study in the economics Ph.D. program. Economics 7851 ends with a mini-conference, attended by faculty and other Ph.D. students, in which each student makes a formal presentation in standard economics conference format, and each student discusses one of these presentations. Professional writing and presentation coaching is also provided.#


$EDUC | Education$
&EDUC 2210 | Designing and Facilitating Learning for Development&
#In Designing and Facilitating Learning for Development, we see commonalities across a variety of venues and settings where people meet together to learn, deliberate, and act. From professional development to social change and town hall to union hall, adult and community learning is everywhere. Yet, for many, the design and facilitation of meaningful learning experiences can be as mysterious as an unopened black box. How does one go about creating inclusive educational and participative experiences in our increasingly interconnected contexts? In this course we open the box and unpack the processes of crafting and conducting collaborative learning experiences. In developing our abilities as ethical leaders of learning and action we serve the growth of others even as we deepen our practice.#
&EDUC 2410 | The Art of Teaching&
#This exploratory course is designed for students of all backgrounds and interests who have a desire to learn more about education and teaching. Teaching takes place in a variety of contexts from the family to the workplace, and this course endeavors to examine the elements of teaching that transcend the typical school-teaching environment. Designed to guide students in reflecting upon their experiences to help them better understand the decisions they make as teachers. Students have the opportunity to pursue their own interests through a teaching fieldwork assignment. Possible field experiences range from large group to tutorial situations, from preschool to adult education, from traditional school subject matters to recreational and occupational areas, and from school-based to nonformal situations. The course work and readings are designed to build on these experiences throughout the semester and provide concepts and skills to apply in the field.#
&EDUC 2610 | Intergroup Dialogue&
#Intergroup dialogue is a form of communication specifically designed for people to engage with one another across social, cultural, and power differences in a critical and meaningful way. This class prepares students to live and work in a diverse world, and educates them in making choices that advance equity. Its main objectives are to: explore our human capacity and need to connect with ourselves and others; increase understanding of personal and social identities and how they inform our lives; explore the effects of social inequity at personal, interpersonal, and structural levels (including the ways in which it disrupts human connection); develop students' skills to communicate, work, and lead effectively across difference; and strengthen individual and collective capacities to strategize for change on campus and beyond.#
&EDUC 2710 | US Education System: Courts, Data, Law and Politics&
#This course aims to explore and answer a single question about America's promise-of success if you work hard and do well in school: Why do we have such substantial and long-standing inequality in the U.S.? In answering this central question, we will investigate the goals, roles, and outcomes of formal educational institutions in American society and the legal and policy environment in which they operate. Specifically, we will review historical state and federal policy, trace the $700 million spent, and interrogate the sociological functions of public and private K12 schools, including the successes, failures, and enigmas of school organization and policy at the local, state, and national level.#
&EDUC 3110 | Educational Psychology&
#Educational psychology is the application of psychological principles and concepts to cases of teaching and learning. We study behavioral, cognitive, embodied, and social-cultural perspectives on learning and thinking, and we use them in planning and reflecting on weekly fieldwork outside the classroom. In the process, we become more mindful and skilled learners ourselves and better facilitators of others' learning.#
&EDUC 3142 | Reflecting on the Intersections of Education and Prison Systems&
#The "school-to-prison track" refers to policies and practices that facilitate the transfer of students out of the school system and into the prison system (including juvenile detention, county jail, immigration detention centers, or adult prison). This course takes a critical analytical look at the intersections of the prisons and schooling, emphasizing pedagogy, history and policy.#
&EDUC 3405 | Multicultural Issues in Education&
#This course explores research on race, ethnicity and language in American education. It examines historical and current patterns of school achievement for minoritized youths. It also examines the cultural and social premises undergirding educational practices in diverse communities and schools. Policies, programs and pedagogy, including multicultural and bilingual education, are explored.#
&EDUC 3510 | Engaged Learning through Extension, Outreach, and Instruction&
#Course is designed to explore strategies and instruction across three aspects of adult education: the Cooperative Extension Service as a structured delivery vehicle, outreach in more informal and non-traditional formats, and college instruction as a formal structure to deliver technical expertise. The intent is to develop a program to meet our target audience, then implement a plan that successfully meets the needs and expectations of instructor and participants alike.#
&EDUC 4010 | Special Methods of Instruction in Agricultural Science Education&
#Students complete learning and skills development about special methods for teaching agricultural science education. Such learning and skill development may include metal fabrication, small engine physics, and/or special laboratory instruction related to agricultural sciences. Students reflect upon that learning and skill development and then create units of instruction employing special methods used to teach secondary and/or post-secondary students about agricultural knowledge, skills, and processes.#
&EDUC 4050 | Exploring Strategies for Teaching and Learning&
#EDUC 4050 builds off of the broad nature of EDUC 2410. This course incorporates extensive field work in teaching, lesson planning, and evaluation based upon current theories in instruction at the collegiate level. The course is intended to integrate theory and practice associated with learning and teaching in college classroom settings and includes a minimum of 40 hours of supervised fieldwork in specific college classes.#
&EDUC 4200 | Adult Language Learners and Marginalization: Applied Teaching Methods for Empowerment&
#When educators teach English to speakers of other languages, what assumptions do they often bring, about learners' goals, abilities, and backgrounds, and about the language-learning process? Which versions of English are often valued more highly in TESOL programs and materials? How can we create opportunities for English-language learning, while also recognizing the knowledge that learners already hold? Through reflections on readings, simulations, and weekly fieldwork, students will deepen their understanding of what it means to teach English to non-native speakers. Students will analyze and apply TESOL methodologies and receive feedback on their lesson planning and delivery in order to strengthen their teaching practice. Participants will learn from each other's situated experiences and increase their awareness of issues involved in global migrations and language learning.#
&EDUC 4223 | City as Community Learning Ecosystem&
#Running shoes are not required, yet we are in training for a marathon. In this course we're enhancing our knowledgebase, toolbox, mindset and resilience as we take up a contest unprecedented in human history— inclusive and just sustainability. Part race against the clock, part design challenge and part performance test, Team Humanity needs all of us to be informed, prepared, and in the game. Having teammates to train with nudges us to keep going as we learn with and from partners, communities and action leaders in this grand challenge. We examine five major concepts and explore their mutual generativity as we look for leverage points of system change: just sustainability; lifelong learning; place; learning ecosystems and social competencies for collective leadership and learning.#
&EDUC 4720 | Philosophy of Education&
#What are the aims of schooling? How are those aims to be achieved? Can Artificial Intelligence be a 'teacher'? What interests guide the formation of educational aims? Questions such these are central to the formulation and reformulations of philosophy of education as they name topics like educational authority, virtues, curricular standards and the social/technological contexts of schooling among others. Drawing from both canonical and contemporary texts and their critics, this course provides an opportunity to analyze and interpret philosophies of education in the changing contexts of 21st century educational policy, neuroscience and technology and ongoing social, environmental and economic injustices.#
&EDUC 4790 | Latinx Education Across the Americas&
#This course examines Latinx education in comparative perspective, with a focus on transnational communities and cross-border movements that link U.S. Latinx education with Latin American education. We ask: how do legacies of colonialism and empire shape the education of Latinx and Latin American communities? How are race, language, gender, cultural and national identity, and representation negotiated in schools? Drawing on ethnographic studies of education in and out of school, we explore how families and youths create knowledge, do literacy, and respond to cultural diversity, displacement, migration, and inequality. Throughout, we inquire into the potential for a decolonial and transformative education.#
&EDUC 4826 | Leading Dialogue Across Difference: Practicum in Intergroup Relations&
#Through theoretical and experiential learning, students in EDUC 4826 will further develop knowledge and skills gained in EDUC 2610 for leadership across social, cultural, and political differences. Through weekly seminar sessions, students gain a working knowledge of scholarly literature drawn from the fields of critical intergroup dialogue, practice theory, social identity theory, and social justice education. Students learn about the theories and empirical evidence on why and how communication and collaboration across difference work. Moreover, through unique experiential learning opportunities in the classroom, students practice communication and collaboration across difference, as well as facilitation skills fundamental to leading intergroup dialogue processes.#
&EDUC 4960 | Undergraduate Internship In Education&
#On-the-job learning experience under the supervision of professionals in a cooperating organization. A learning contract is written between the faculty supervisor and students, stating the conditions of the work assignment, supervision, and reporting. All 4960 internship courses must adhere to the CALS guidelines at cals.cornell.edu/academics/student-research/internship.#
&EDUC 4970 | Individual Study in Education&
#A student may, with approval of a faculty advisor, study a problem or topic not covered in a regular course or may undertake tutorial study of an independent nature in an area of educational interest.#
&EDUC 4980 | Undergraduate Teaching&
#Participating students assist in teaching a course allied with their education and experience. Students are expected to meet regularly with a discussion or laboratory section, to gain teaching experience, and regularly to discuss teaching objectives, techniques, and subject matter with the professor in charge.#
&EDUC 4990 | Undergraduate Research&
#Affords opportunities for students to carry out independent research under appropriate supervision. Each student is expected to review pertinent literature, prepare a project outline, conduct the research, and prepare a report.#
&EDUC 5223 | City as Community Learning Ecosystem&
#Running shoes are not required, yet we are in training for a marathon. In this course we're enhancing our knowledgebase, toolbox, mindset and resilience as we take up a contest unprecedented in human history— inclusive and just sustainability. Part race against the clock, part design challenge and part performance test, Team Humanity needs all of us to be informed, prepared, and in the game. Having teammates to train with nudges us to keep going as we learn with and from partners, communities and action leaders in this grand challenge. We examine five major concepts and explore their mutual generativity as we look for leverage points of system change: just sustainability; lifelong learning; place; learning ecosystems and social competencies for collective leadership and learning.#
&EDUC 5510 | Engaged Learning Through Extension, Outreach, and Instruction&
#Course is designed to explore strategies and instruction across three aspects of adult education: the Cooperative Extension Service as a structured delivery vehicle, outreach in more informal and non-traditional formats, and college instruction as a formal structure to deliver technical expertise. The intent is to develop a program to meet our target audience, then implement a plan that successfully meets the needs and expectations of instructor and participants alike. The graduate level option will incorporate workshop, outreach, and instructional presentations developed from the grad student's area of expertise. A unit plan of instruction will also be developed.#
&EDUC 5710 | US Education System: Courts, Data, Law and Politics&
#This course aims to explore and answer a single question about America's promise-of success if you work hard and do well in school: Why do we have such substantial and long-standing inequality in the U.S.? In answering this central question, we will investigate the goals, roles, and outcomes of formal educational institutions in American society and the legal and policy environment in which they operate. Specifically, we will review historical state and federal policy, trace the $700 million spent, and interrogate the sociological functions of public and private K12 schools, including the successes, failures, and enigmas of school organization and policy at the local, state, and national level.#
&EDUC 6720 | Philosophy of Education&
#What are the aims of schooling? How are those aims to be achieved? Can Artificial Intelligence be a 'teacher'? What interests guide the formation of educational aims? Questions such these are central to the formulation and reformulations of philosophy of education as they name topics like educational authority, virtues, curricular standards and the social/technological contexts of schooling among others. Drawing from both canonical and contemporary texts and their critics, this course provides an opportunity to analyze and interpret philosophies of education in the changing contexts of 21st century educational policy, neuroscience and technology and ongoing social, environmental and economic injustices.#
&EDUC 7010 | Empirical Research&
#For study that predominantly involves collection and analysis of research data.#
&EDUC 7790 | Latinx Education Across the Americas&
#This course examines Latinx education in comparative perspective, with a focus on transnational communities and cross-border movements that link U.S. Latinx education with Latin American education. We ask: how do legacies of colonialism and empire shape the education of Latinx and Latin American communities? How are race, language, gender, cultural and national identity, and representation negotiated in schools? Drawing on ethnographic studies of education in and out of school, we explore how families and youths create knowledge, do literacy, and respond to cultural diversity, displacement, migration, and inequality. Throughout, we inquire into the potential for a decolonial and transformative education.#


$ELSO | English Language Support$
&ELSO 6210 | Improving Pronunciation&
#When we think about pronunciation, we often think about individual sounds, but other features of speech are often more important for making oneself understood. These features, such as pausing, intonation and stress, make up the melody of English. By the end of this course, students will increase their awareness of and control over the aspects of spoken English that most affect intelligibility, gain confidence for being understood by listeners, and develop strategies for more self-directed learning beyond the course.#
&ELSO 6220 | Taking Part in Discussions&
#Participating in class and group discussions is essential for becoming a part of academic and professional communities as discussions are used to share and create new knowledge, challenge ideas, negotiate identity, and have a voice. This course is designed to provide students with opportunities to improve participation and fluency in academic discussions. By the end of this course, students will learn strategies to prepare for entering, politely disagreeing, participating in, and leading discussions. This course will provide opportunities to try out new techniques and strategies in an interactive, supportive environment. Students will leave this course with more confidence to assert their voice and express their opinions.#
&ELSO 6230 | Designing and Delivering Effective Presentations&
#Whether presenting for seminars, journal club meetings, conferences, or in classes, being comfortable presenting is an essential part of graduate studies. This course will provide students with strategies for preparing and delivering presentations that are clear, compelling, persuasive, concise, and visually effective, as well as offer opportunities to practice delivering presentations in front of a supportive audience.#
&ELSO 6515 | Preparing to Write Workshop&
#This course is designed for multilingual domestic and international graduate and professional students who are in the early stages of a writing project or who want to learn strategies in preparation for future writing projects. During this course, students will explore general and discipline-specific writing processes, approaches to understanding types of writing in their field, strategies for reading and note-taking, library resources specific to their field, ways to use technology to support writing, and approaches for generating ideas and prose with more ease. Students will have time during class to apply the strategies to a current or upcoming writing project.#
&ELSO 6535 | Research Paper Writing Workshop&
#This course is designed to assist multilingual domestic and international graduate and professional students in making progress on drafting a research paper (e.g., research article, dissertation, thesis, seminar paper, conference paper, research proposal). Students will discuss features of research papers (e.g., review of the literature, sections of research papers), learn about strategies for writing (e.g., constructing paragraphs, determining structure), and practice strategies for setting and meeting writing goals.#
&ELSO 6565 | Thesis and Dissertation Writing Workshop&
#This course is designed to assist multilingual domestic and international graduate and professional students in making progress on drafting parts of their theses and dissertations. This course provides writing strategies, structured writing time, a supportive writing community, and access to writing resources.#
&ELSO 6620 | Preparing for the Professional Job Search&
#This course introduces a series of professional job application steps, including the giving elevator pitches, networking, searching for jobs, interpreting job ads, attending job fairs, making digital profiles, writing resumes and cover letters, interviewing, and becoming familiar with relevant resources. By the end of this course, students will be aware of the different dimensions of applying for professional jobs, including their cultural and linguistic implications.  This course will be useful to students to develop their job application documents and skills.#
&ELSO 6630 | Preparing for the Academic Job Search&
#This course is designed to assist multilingual domestic and international graduate students as they prepare to apply for academic positions. Students will learn strategies for planning an academic job search, developing application materials (i.e. CVs, application letters, statements on teaching, research and diversity), and preparing for first- and second-stage interviews. By the end of this course, students will have a better understanding of the overall academic job search process and drafts of several application documents. This course would be useful to students who are just starting to become acquainted with the academic job search process as well as those preparing to apply for positions the following fall.#


$ENGL | English$
&ENGL 1100 | How Reading Changes Your Life&
#Reading changes your life. Sometimes it's a specific book; sometimes it's a way of reading that's new and different. This course will introduce different ways we can read and write about books and media, and their life-changing potential. Designed as an introduction to literary studies, the class hopes to find the cure for how high school and college might have beaten the love of reading out of you, and to help you find a way to love reading again in an environment that (while preparing you for upper-level English classes) stresses pleasure and joy. Emphasis will be on building skills, finding creative ways to respond to your own reading interests, and creating community. This is a course for bookworms and wannabe bookworms who want to know what to do next about how books move them.#
&ENGL 1105 | FWS: Writing and Sexual Politics&
#Topics and reading lists vary from section to section, but all will in some way address the subject of sexual politics. Some sections may deal with fiction, poetry, film, or drama, and many include a mix of literary genres. Students will practice close, attentive, and imaginative reading and writing. Consult the John S. Knight Institute Current Courses webpage to access current year offerings, instructors and section descriptions.#
&ENGL 1111 | FWS: Writing Across Cultures&
#Topics and reading lists vary from section to section, but all will engage in some way with an aspect of culture or subculture. Some sections may deal with fiction, poetry, film, or drama, and many include a mix of literary genres. Students will practice close, attentive, and imaginative reading and writing. Consult the John S. Knight Institute Current Courses webpage to access current year offerings, instructors and section descriptions.#
&ENGL 1130 | FWS: Writing the Environment&
#Our human abilities to communicate about nature, the environment, and climate change are challenged by the scale and scope of the topics. This course enables students to read, write, and design forms of communication that engage with the environment, in order to inform, advocate, and to connect with our world. Consult the John S. Knight Institute Current Courses webpage to access current year offerings, instructors and section descriptions.#
&ENGL 1134 | FWS: True Stories&
#How do we understand the reality of others? For that matter, how do we know and understand our own experience? One answer is writing: writing can crystalize lived experience for others. We can record our observations, our thoughts, our feelings and insights and hopes and failures, to communicate them, to understand them. In this course, we will read nonfiction narratives that explore and shape the self and reality, including the personal essay, memoir, autobiography, documentary film, and journalism. We will write essays that explore and explain these complex issues of presenting one's self and others.#
&ENGL 1140 | FWS: Writing Medicine: Stories of Illness and Healing&
#What does it mean to be healthy? How do we describe our pain? Who becomes a physician? The practice of medicine isn't confined to scientific knowledge: it raises difficult questions about culture, identity, and bodies, and the stories we tell about all of these. This course will focus on works of literature and media to think about how medical care changes across time and place, and to explore images and narratives that shape our expectations about illness and health. Short writing assignments and longer essays will develop your critical thinking, strengthen your writing skills, and build your awareness of the complex cultural landscape of medical care.#
&ENGL 1158 | FWS: American Voices&
#Topics and reading lists vary from section to section, but all will engage in some way with an aspect of American culture. Some sections may deal with fiction, poetry, film, or drama, and many include a mix of literary genres. Students will practice close, attentive, and imaginative reading and writing. Consult the John S. Knight Institute Current Courses webpage to access current year offerings, instructors and section descriptions.#
&ENGL 1160 | FWS: Intersections: Race, Writing, and Power&
#How does race inform the way we understand the world around us? How do writers explore their experiences of race and colonialism to challenge conventional notions of nation, citizenship, knowledge, and self? In this class, we engage materials that complicate our ideas of race in order to imagine new forms of identity, social life, and political possibility. We engage with creators who are Black, Brown, Indigenous, People of Color, or from the Global South. The works we study may include podcasts, graphic novels, memoirs, poetry, plays, or films. Writing projects may be critical, creative, or research-based, as we develop our understanding of race and identity and by extension our capacities as writers.#
&ENGL 1167 | FWS: Reading Now&
#Reading is experiencing a new revolution in the twentieth and twenty-first centuries. We still read paper books, but we also read by scrolling on screen, through search engines, and in images and memes. What kinds of texts are emerging in this new era, and how do we read them? How do writing—and our ways of reading—connect with the urgent topics before us now: technology and social control, truth and media, climate change and apocalypse, identity, equality, and human rights? This course will examine the past twenty years of writing in a variety of genres, printed and/or online, from fiction to memoir to poetry and beyond. As we read, we will explore and discover the forms that our own writing can take in response.#
&ENGL 1168 | FWS: Cultural Studies&
#From TV news to rock lyrics, from ads to political speeches to productions of Shakespeare, the forms of culture surround us at every moment. In addition to entertaining us or enticing us, they carry implied messages about who we are, what world we live in, and what we should value. Topics and reading lists vary from section to section, but all are built on the assumption that learning to decode these messages is a survival skill in today's media-saturated world and also excellent training for reading literature. Consult the John S. Knight Institute Current Courses webpage to access current year offerings, instructors and section descriptions.#
&ENGL 1170 | FWS: Short Stories&
#What can a short story do that no other art form can do? We all consume and produce stories. To write about how narrative works, both within and against tradition, is to touch the core of identity, the quick of what makes us human. Storytelling informs all writing. Engaging diverse authors, we will practice not only reading sensitively and incisively but also making evidence-based arguments with power and grace, learning the habits of writing, revision, and documentation that allow us to join public or scholarly conversation. We will embrace "shortness" as a compression of meaning to unpack. Our own writing may include close analyses of texts, syntheses that place stories in critical dialogue, and both creative and research-based projects.#
&ENGL 1183 | FWS: Word and Image&
#What happens when we adapt books into movies, write fan-fiction about video games, or create poetry about paintings? What happens when we write about one genre as though it were another? We have been writing about images and making images about writing for a long time. In addition to conventional types of art and literature like paintings, novels, or poetry, other forms such as film, video games, exhibitions, and virtual reality offer lively areas for analysis. In this class, we will engage with widely varied cultural forms—including, perhaps, experimental poetry, medieval manuscripts, graphic novels, memoirs, plays, films, podcasts, and more—to develop multiple media literacies as we sharpen our own writing about culture, literature, and art.#
&ENGL 1191 | FWS: British Literature&
#Topics and reading lists vary from section to section, but all will engage in some way with the subject of British literature. Some sections may deal with fiction, poetry, or drama, and many include a mix of literary genres. Students will practice close, attentive, and imaginative reading and writing. Consult the John S. Knight Institute Current Courses webpage to access current year offerings, instructors and section descriptions.#
&ENGL 1270 | FWS: Writing About Literature&
#Reading lists vary from section to section, but close, attentive, and imaginative reading and writing are central to all. Some sections may deal with fiction, poetry, or drama, or include a mix of literary kinds. By engaging in discussions and working with varied writing assignments, students will explore major modes and genres of English poetry and prose, and may learn about versification techniques, rhetorical strategies, performance as interpretation, and thematic and topical concerns. In the process students will expand the possibilities of their own writing. Sections that invite students to study and write critically about plays or films in a variety of dramatic idioms and cultural traditions may require attendance at screenings or at live productions by the theatre department. All sections are taught by Department of English faculty. Consult the John S. Knight Institute Current Courses webpage to access current year offerings, instructors and section descriptions.#
&ENGL 2200 | The Idea of the Pet in Literature and History&
#Animal companions are signs of our modernity. They can confirm our humanity, or call it into question. This course studies modern pet keeping and the human relation to animals. We will begin with the eighteenth-century pet keeping "fad," and turn to a focus on the literature of pets in the nineteenth and twentieth centuries, moving from questions of how literature can represent animals to discussions of the social dimensions of petkeeping and the ethics of animal rights. The course will include a discussion of the modern veterinarian's relationship with the companion animal and its owner, and a class forum on the ethics of the treatment of animals. Readings will include works by William Wordsworth, Virginia Woolf, Jack London, Albert Payson Terhune, and Paul Auster.#
&ENGL 2240 | Comedy: Renaissance and Now&
#What makes us laugh? What made people laugh in the past, and how has it changed? This course will take a long view of comedy, juxtaposing its great popularity in early modern England with its appeal in the present day. Beginning with Shakespeare's comedies of mistaken identity, we will grapple along the way with the diverse pleasures offered by clowns, jokes, satire, the Simpsons, and television sitcoms. Readings will explore how and why humor works and consider themes such as the nature of identity, cruelty and physical comedy, the potential of humor for political critique, and what it means to take pleasure (or discomfort) from a literary or artistic object.#
&ENGL 2350 | Literature and Medicine&
#How does literary language depict the experience of physical suffering? Can a poem or a novel palliate pain, illness, even the possibility of death? From darkly comic narratives of black plague to the rise and fall of hysteria to depictions of the AIDS crisis, this course examines literature centered on medical practices from the early modern period through the twentieth century. Why have medical practices changed, and how do writers address their political, social, and ideological implications? Readings will include a broad range of genres, including poetry (Dickinson, Whitman, Keats), fiction (McEwan, Chekhov, Gilman, Kafka, Camus), theater (Kushner), nonfiction prose (Woolf, Freud), and critical theory (Foucault, Scarry, Canguilhem, Sontag).#
&ENGL 2690 | American Poetry Since 1850&
#This course introduces students to major American poets from the mid-nineteenth century to the present. It is designed for anyone wanting to deepen their knowledge of and appreciation for poetry while also addressing its relationship to modern American social and cultural history. It addresses questions about what poetry is for, why it is often "difficult," how it is related to language-play as a basic human drive that engages with personal anxieties, bodily rhythms, social and existential tensions, and the riddles of existence. Another through-line of this course is the relationship of poetry to democracy in the United States.#
&ENGL 2703 | Thinking Media&
#For description, see GERST 2703.#
&ENGL 2715 | Memoir&
#What does it mean to put a life story on the page? How does memory shape the present, and vice versa? What stories resonate in memoir, and why is it such a popular genre? This course will address these questions through reading memoir, a genre that became widely popular in the late Twentieth Century but that has deep historical roots. We will explore the questions it raises primarily through reading contemporary memoirs by writers such as Primo Levi, Maxine Hong Kingston, Michael Ondaatje, Alison Bechdel, and others.#
&ENGL 2730 | Children's Literature&
#An historical study of children's literature from the 17th century to the present, principally in Europe and America, which will explore changing literary forms in relation to the social history of childhood. Ranging from oral folktale to contemporary novelistic realism (with some glances at film narrative), major figures may include Perrault, Newbery, the Grimms, Andersen, Carroll, Alcott, Stevenson, Burnett, Kipling, the Disney studio, E. B. White, C. S. Lewis, Sendak, Silverstein, Mildred Taylor, and Bette Greene. We'll also encounter a variety of critical models—psychoanalytic, materialist, feminist, structuralist—that scholars have employed to explain the variety and importance of children's literature. Finally, we will consider how the idea of "the child" has evolved over this period.#
&ENGL 2755 | Birds, Beasts, and Bards: The Poetry of Animals&
#If you love animals but are sad because you can't keep them in your dorm room, poems may well be the perfect substitute. Evoking the bodies and spirits of non-human creatures has always been one of the special domains of poetry. In this course, we'll consider a wide range of poems that take many different approaches to unlocking the mysterious otherness of animals, using all the tricks and techniques of this venerable art: rhythm, form, metaphor, observation and imagination. In discussions and essays we'll explore the ways in which poems about animals raise major questions of ethics and epistemology, while achieving the primal magic of translating life into language. Poets to be studied include Blake, Whitman, Dickinson, Frost, Lawrence, Moore, Bishop, Hughes, and many others.#
&ENGL 2785 | Comic Books and Graphic Novels&
#POW! ZAP! DOOM! This is a class about how we can draw together, studying a medium that is based in the practice, in all senses, of "drawing together." We will read Pulitzer winning memoirs and NSFW gutter rubbish. We will trace the history of sequential art from about 1898 to the present, including caricature, pop art, and meme cultures, Wonder Woman and Wimmin's Comix, Archie and archives. Studying comics requires us to entangle disciplines and to make things: graphic design, marketing, media studies, law, education, and various illuminated cosmologies. What is this medium that teaches us to read the page anew, to speak in bubbles, to witness and play with apocalypse, to enjoy our suspension in the infinite, and to indulge in graphic sensations?#
&ENGL 2800 | Creative Writing&
#An introductory course in the theory, practice, and reading of fiction, poetry, and allied forms. Both narrative and verse readings are assigned. Students will learn to savor and practice the craft of poetry and narrative writing, developing techniques that inform both. Some class meetings may feature peer review of student work, and instructors may assign writing exercises or prompts.#
&ENGL 2880 | Expository Writing&
#This course offers guidance and an audience for students who wish to gain skill in expository writing—a common term for critical, reflective, investigative, and creative nonfiction. Each section provides a context for writing defined by a form of exposition, a disciplinary area, a practice, or a topic intimately related to the written medium. Course members will read in relevant published material and write and revise their own work regularly, while reviewing and responding to one another's. Students and instructors will confer individually throughout the term. Topics differ for each section. Please see the Class Roster for more details.#
&ENGL 2950 | Introduction to Humanities&
#These seminars offer an introduction to the humanities by exploring historical, cultural, social, and political themes. Students will explore themes in critical dialogue with a range of texts and media drawn from the arts, humanities, and/or humanistic social sciences. Guest speakers, including Cornell faculty and Society for the Humanities Fellows, will present from different disciplines and points of view. Students will make field trips to relevant local sites and visit Cornell special collections and archives. Students enrolled in these seminars will have the opportunity to participate in additional programming related to the annual focus theme of Cornell's Society for the Humanities and the Humanities Scholars Program for undergraduate humanities research.#
&ENGL 2971 | Reading for the End of Time&
#This course will explore how in the body of world literature humans have construed, narrated, imagined the end of time and of the world and sometimes its new beginning.  Spanning from ancient epic and origin myths through nineteenth century novels and colonial narratives to contemporary science fiction, we will inquire, through our reading: what is a world?  How does the labor of the imagination construct a world or the world and deconstruct or undo worlds?  Readings will range widely across time and world space (with authors such as Hesiod, Balzac, Marquez, Murakami, Alexievich, Bacigalupi) and will include attention to contemporary theories of world literature.#
&ENGL 2999 | The First American University&
#Educational historian Frederick Rudolph called Cornell University "the first American university," referring to its unique role as a coeducational, nonsectarian, land-grant institution with a broad curriculum and diverse student body. In this course, we will explore the history of Cornell, taking as our focus the pledge of Ezra Cornell and Andrew Dickson White to found a university where "any person can find instruction in any study." The course will cover a wide range of topics and perspectives relating to the faculty, student body, evolution of campus, and important events and eras in Cornell history. Stories and vignettes will provide background on the current university and its administrative structure, campus traditions, and the names that adorn buildings and memorials throughout campus. Finally, the course will offer a forum for students to address questions on present-day aspects of the university.#
&ENGL 3021 | Literary Theory on the Edge&
#This course examines a range of exciting and provocative 20th- and 21st- century theoretical paradigms for thinking about literature, language and culture. These approaches provide differing, though often overlapping, entryways into theoretical analysis, including structuralism and post-structuralism, translation studies, Black studies, Afro-Diasporic Studies, postcolonial and decolonial studies, performance studies, media theory and cinema/media studies, the digital humanities, psychoanalysis and trauma theory, gender studies and queer studies, studies of the Anthropocene/environmental studies, and animal studies. Occasional invited guests, lectures and class discussions will provide students with a facility for close textual analysis, a knowledge of major currents of thought in the humanities, and an appreciation for the uniqueness and complexity of language and media.#
&ENGL 3120 | Beowulf&
#Beowulf has received renewed attention in popular culture, thanks to the production of recent movies and riveting new translations. The poem's popular appeal lies in its complex depictions of monsters, its accounts of heroic bravery, and its lavish portrayals of life in the Meadhall. Through close readings we will also explore the "darker side" of the poem: its punishing depictions of loss and exile, despairing meditations on unstable kingship and dynastic failure, and harrowing depictions of heroic defeat and the vanities of existence on the Middle-Earth. Attention will be given to the poem's cultural contexts, its literary heritage, and its layered pagan and Christian perspectives. A bilingual edition of the poem will be assigned so that students may read in Old and Modern English.#
&ENGL 3165 | Medieval America&
#Traces, fantasies, and nightmares of "the Middle Ages" filled 19th century American writings and persist today; this course moves between early American and actual medieval literature, seeking new perspectives on both. Southern "chivalry"? New England "feudalism"? "Anglo-Saxons" as models for racialized American identity—or identifications with anti-Norman Scottish warriors as models for abolition (as in the surname Douglass that Frederick Douglass chose from himself)? We'll linger over Poe, Hawthorne, Melville, Stowe, Whitman, Douglass, and others while, in alternating stretches, we read some troubadours, Middle English romances, Chaucer, Malory, and actual medieval rebels.#
&ENGL 3270 | Shakespeare: The Late Plays&
#The course focuses on Shakespeare's middle to late plays, from the "problem comedies," through the great tragedies and romances.  While we will pay particular attention to questions of dramatic form (genre) and historical context (including ways in which the plays themselves call context into question), the primary concentration will be on careful close readings of the language of the play-texts, in relation to critical questions of subjectivity, power, and art. On the way, we will encounter problems of sexuality, identity, emotion, the body, family, violence, politics, God, the nation, nature and money (not necessarily in that order).#
&ENGL 3280 | The Bible as Literature&
#A knowledge of the Bible's images, stories and themes is crucial to understanding not only the art and literature of many cultures, but also ancient and contemporary world politics. It is the world's most widely read book and a sacred text of three great religions: Judaism, Islam and Christianity. This course will offer students an introduction to the Bible's major historical, anthropological and literary contexts. Students will learn about the Bible's literary divisions and its main stories and characters as well as its ideas about faith, salvation, history and the end of time. We will use the New Oxford Annotated Bible for all course work.#
&ENGL 3370 | American Theatre on Stage and Screen II (1960-Present)&
#How has theatre shaped our notion of America and Americans in the second half of the 20th century and beyond?  What role has politics played in the theatre?  How has performance been used to examine concepts of identity, community, and nationality?  And how and why have certain plays in this era been translated to the screen? In this course we will examine major trends in the American theatre from 1960 to the present.  We will focus on theatre that responds directly to moments of social turmoil, including: the Vietnam and Iraq Wars, the Civil Rights and Black Lives Matter Movements, Women's and Gender Equality Movements, and the AIDS epidemic. We will also explore the tensions between Broadway and alternative theatre production.#
&ENGL 3440 | Merchants, Whalers, Pirates, Sailors: Early American Sea-faring Literature&
#This course will look at how literature based at sea helps both shape and challenge concepts of freedom and capital. By looking at the relationship between the sea-faring economy and its relationship to American Expansion and the history of enslavement we will explore how literature based at sea provided both a reflection and an alternate reality to land-based politics. While the main focus of the course will be nineteenth-century literature, we will also be exploring maritime literature of the twentieth and twenty-first centuries and its analogues in speculative fiction.#
&ENGL 3460 | Nineteenth Century British and American Poetry: Wordsworth to Dickinson&
#The nineteenth century witnessed an extraordinary expansion of poetry in both Great Britain and the United States. Traditional forms like the ballad, the ode, and the elegy were given fresh life, as poets increasingly turned to the natural world for inspiration. At the same time the inner realms of mind, memory, and imagination were being explored by poets with unprecedented depth and precision. Nineteenth century poets also grappled with major social and political upheavals, from revolution and war to the struggle to abolish slavery throughout the English-speaking world. We will survey this rich and diverse body of work, focusing on prominent figures like Wordsworth, Keats, Shelley, the Brownings, Tennyson, Whitman, Poe, and Dickinson, along with lesser-known poets who made significant contributions to its abundance.#
&ENGL 3508 | African American Literature: 1930s - present&
#In 1940, with the publication of his novel Native Son, Richard Wright helped to launch the protest era in African American literature. This course focuses on the development of key fiction and nonfiction genres that have shaped the development of African American literature from the mid-20th-century to the contemporary era. Genres that we will consider include poetry, fiction, the essay, the speech, autobiography, and the novel. We will explore the main periods in this literature's development such as the Black Arts movement of the 1960s and the black women's literary renaissance of the 1970s, and consider the rise of science fiction writing. Authors who will be considered include Richard Wright, Ann Petry, Ralph Ellison, Gwendolyn Brooks, James Baldwin, Lorraine Hansberry, Malcolm X, Amiri Baraka, Nikki Giovanni, Maya Angelou, Toni Morrison, Alice Walker, Ishmael Reed, and August Wilson. We will also incorporate discussion of works in film and art that have been the outgrowth of writing y African American authors. The course will include screenings of scenes from the class film A Raisin in the Sun, along with the films Dutchman and Beloved.#
&ENGL 3565 | Black Ecoliterature&
#Mainstream media would have us believe that driving a new Toyota Prius, recycling, and shopping "clean" at Whole Foods would make us all food environmentalists, right? Additionally, climate change and environmental degradation are often discussed as if they are phenomena that affect us all equally. Despite these dynamics, research in recent years tells us that while there might be some general ways that we experience our constantly changing physical environments—race, gender, and location very much affect how we experience "Nature." In this course we will use literature from across the African diaspora to investigate how looking at race, gender, and location produces very different ideas about environment, environmentalism, and "Nature" itself.#
&ENGL 3571 | The Modern Irish Writers&
#This is a course on Irish writing of the modern period. In our readings over the semester (which will include some of the twentieth century's greatest literary texts), we will cover the development of Irish writing from the Yeats-led Irish Revival of the century's early years through Joyce's high modernist virtuosity to Bowen's Bloomsbury-inflected fiction to the proto-postmodernisms of O'Brien and Beckett. Along the way we will also examine how Irish modernism raises fundamental questions about such things as: the relation between language and national identity; the nature of modernism's "newness"; colonial, postcolonial, and "semicolonial" culture; the political uses of literature; and the contending forces of cosmopolitanism and nationalism in the modern period.#
&ENGL 3741 | Design Thinking, Media, and Community&
#This StudioLab course connects critical design teams with researchers, NGOs, and nonprofits working on human rights, public health, and environmental and land rights in the US and abroad. Practicing methods of transmedia knowledge, critical design thinking, and strategic storytelling, students collaborate on projects with the Center on the Death Penalty Worldwide, Health Access Connect (Uganda), NYS 4-H, and SOOFA Ranch (GA). Consulting on partners' ongoing projects, teams study and practice processes from IDEO's Human-Centered Design Thinking and Stanford's Design for Extreme Affordability, as well as UX, tactical media, and activist organizing developed by ACT-UP, Black Lives Matter, Guerrilla Girls, and contemporary, multi-platform campaigns, presenting and sharing their collaborations via project site and other platforms.#
&ENGL 3747 | The Trouble with Crime Fiction&
#Crime fiction simply dominates our screen time: White Lotus, Law and Order, NCIS, Psych, Sherlock, Only Murders in the Building, True Detective, Breaking Bad. But crime fiction is rife with trouble—femme fatales, drug-addled sleuths, "random" murders concealing menacing conspiracies. And literary culture loves to make trouble for crime fiction as well—to attack, parody, reinvent, complicate, and rejoice in it. This course will explore classic mystery story design in Poe, Doyle, and Wilkie Collins, and later fiction by Jorge Luis Borges, Joan Lindsay, Patricia Highsmith, Margaret Atwood, China Miéville, Tana French, Oyinkan Braithwaite, and Silvia Moreno-Garcia. We'll also analyze films and television episodes directed by Boon Joon-ho, Sally Wainwright, and Spike Lee.#
&ENGL 3753 | Mass Culture and the Avant-Garde&
#This course explores the creative cross-pollination between mass culture and avant-garde art, addressing key concepts in 20th century aesthetics (the middlebrow, the spectacle, pastiche, kitsch) and the evolution of the category of art itself. The mediating conditions of class, race, gender, and sexuality will be central to our examination of these conceptual histories, as will changes in the means of artistic production and distribution. Interdisciplinary and intermedial in its focus, the course will include texts by Theodor Adorno, Amiri Baraka, Pierre Bourdieu, Peter Burger, Guy Debord, Clement Greenberg, Cathy Park Hong, Griselda Pollock, Rosalind Krauss, Dwight MacDonald, Fred Moten, Sianne Ngai, Marjorie Perloff, Susan Sontag, and Hito Steyerl.#
&ENGL 3762 | Law and Literature&
#What can lawyers and judges learn from the study of literature? This course explores the relevance of imaginative literature (novels, drama, poetry, and film) to questions of law and social justice from a range of perspectives. We will consider debates about how literature can help to humanize legal decision-making; how storytelling has helped to give voice to oppressed populations over history; how narratives of suffering cultivate popular support for human rights; the role played by storytelling in a trial; and how literature can shed light on the limits of law and public policy.#
&ENGL 3820 | Narrative Writing&
#This course focuses upon the writing of fiction or related narrative forms. May include significant reading and discussion, explorations of form and technique, completion of writing assignments and prompts, and workshop peer review of student work. Many students will choose to write short stories, but excerpts from longer works will also be accepted.#
&ENGL 3840 | Poetry Writing&
#This course focuses upon the writing of poetry. May include significant reading and discussion, explorations of form and technique, completion of writing assignments and prompts, and workshop peer review of student work.#
&ENGL 3890 | The Personal Voice: Nonfiction Writing&
#Writers of creative nonfiction plumb the depths of their experience and comment memorably on the passing scene. They write reflectively on themselves and journalistically on the activities and artifacts of others. The voice they seek is at once uniquely personal, objectively persuasive, and accessible to others who want to relish their view of the world and learn from it. This course is for the writer (beyond the first year of college) who wants to experiment with style and voice to find new writerly personae in a workshop environment. During the semester, we'll read models of literary nonfiction, including one another's, and work to develop a portfolio of diverse and polished writing.#
&ENGL 3901 | Utopia&
#With the publication of his Utopia, Thomas More coined the name of a new genre of literature in which the writer posits an ideal society – and sometimes an impossibly ideal society. In this course, we'll explore the sources of More's Utopia in political philosophy and its legacy in speculative, socialist, and science fiction. What do these literary experiments tell us about how society would have to be organized to be free of sexism, racism, inequality, war, and ecological ruination. Authors may include Thomas More, James Harrington, Margaret Cavendish, Daniel Defoe, William Morris, Marge Piercy, Ursula LeGuin, Toni Morrison.#
&ENGL 3910 | Poetry and Poetics of the Americas&
#As globalization draws the Americas ever closer together, reshaping our sense of a common and uncommon American culture, what claims might be made for a distinctive, diverse poetry and poetics of the Americas? How might we characterize its dominant forms and alternative practices? What shared influences, affiliations, concerns and approaches might we find and what convergences and differences emerge? Ranging across North and South America, Central America and the Caribbean, this course will place in conversation such figures as Poe, Pound, Stein, Williams, Neruda, Vallejo, Borges, Parra, Bolaño, Césaire, Nourbese Philip, Hong, Long Soldier, Rankine, Lamar, Kaminsky, and Xie.#
&ENGL 3934 | Caribbean Worlds: Landscape, Labor and Climate Imaginaries&
#The seminar will explore relations between the tangible effects of climate on urban, infrastructural, and ecological landscapes in the Caribbean and lived experiences of climate as mediated through literature, film, and other expressive forms. Topics will range from historical accounts of climate as 'catastrophe' – the effects of hurricanes, volcanoes, and earthquakes– to colonial histories of coerced labor, to climate as a more general horizon in the constitution of Caribbean worlds. The seminar draws on the work of anthropologist Anna Tsing, interpreting the industrialized-urbanized ecological territory in terms of "capitalist ruination" which, nonetheless, holds possibilities for other modes of environmentality, as the hazards effected by climate change fundamentally disrupt and transform the very urbanity constituted through colonial and later resource extractive appropriations.#
&ENGL 3977 | Body Politics in African Literature, Cinema, and New Media&
#This course examines how writers, filmmakers, and content creators from Africa engage with and revise public images of bodies—specifically pleasure, queerness, sex strikes, etc. Our inquiry also surveys theorists' commitment to highlighting forms of self-fashioning and agency/responsibility in addition to troubling problematic tropes of pathologization and excess. These topical explorations will be achieved through analyses of storytelling, digitality, the aestheticization of violence, and social change theories. Through contemporary films, digital platforms, novels, and essays, we will reflect on the precarious yet empowering nature of the body. Public speaking (class discussions, student presentations) and deep attention to analysis and writing (reaction papers, an abstract, an annotated bibliography, and a final paper) will help you refine your understanding of body politics.This course examines how writers, filmmakers, and content creators from Africa engage with and revise public images of bodies—specifically pleasure, queerness, sex strikes, etc. Our inquiry also surveys theorists' commitment to highlighting forms of self-fashioning and agency/responsibility in addition to troubling problematic tropes of pathologization and excess. These topical explorations will be achieved through analyses of storytelling, digitality, the aestheticization of violence, and social change theories. Through contemporary films, digital platforms, novels, and essays, we will reflect on the precarious yet empowering nature of the body. Public speaking (class discussions, student presentations) and deep attention to analysis and writing (reaction papers, an abstract, an annotated bibliography, and a final paper) will help you refine your understanding of body politics.#
&ENGL 3989 | The Revolutionary as Author: Autobiography and Political Myth&
#In this course, we will read some of the most influential examples of a genre at the intersection of literature and history: the memoir of the revolutionary. Along the way, we will consider some of the fictional works (e.g. by Turgenev, Dostoevsky) that have been important in this nonfictional tradition, as well as poetry produced by the revolutionary currents we discuss. As we study the autobiographies of Russian, American, and German leftist political figures like Piotr Kropotkin, Emma Goldman, Ernst Toller, and Angela Davis, we will consider the literary methods these writers use to intertwine their own life stories with political history. How is life-writing a form of revolutionary self-fashioning? How have literary movements intersected with revolutionary writings? With special attention to the questions of gender, ethnicity, and race.#
&ENGL 4133 | From the Conquest to Caxton: Middle English Language, Literatures, History&
#This seminar will explore the English language and its literatures in its most diverse centuries, which 19th century philologists saw as the "middle" span: after the collapse of Old English language, poetic style, and indigenous power-centers at the Norman Conquest (1066), up to printing (1476), the beginnings of "standard Modern English," claims to an "English literary tradition," and the origins of Atlantic adventurism and imperialism. Between those benchmarks we'll consider multilingualism, English linguistic diversity and changes, social identity, literary forms, and ideas about language and literature, sampling many Middle English works and more fully reading the "Katherine Group," Gawain-poet, Piers Plowman, and Julian of Norwich's Showings.#
&ENGL 4380 | Imagining Utopia&
#Why is it easier to imagine the end of the world than the end of capitalism? At a time when reality appears dystopian, many are quick to dismiss utopian visions as naïve or irresponsible. In this seminar, we take on the critical and imaginative task of considering what utopias can tell us about our pasts, presents, and possible futures. We encounter two centuries of utopias in which communes have displaced the family, mutual aid has taken the place of capitalist individualism, and sexuality is no longer linked to property rights. While these speculative times and places seek to overcome capitalism, imperialism, racism, sexism, homophobia, transphobia, and the climate crisis, they remain haunted by these figures. Our treatment of utopias in theory and literature therefore includes a range of ambivalent affects and genres, from critical and ambiguous utopias to philosophical treatises and manifestos.#
&ENGL 4509 | Toni Morrison's Novels&
#In this course, we will engage in close and reflective critical readings of Toni Morrison's eleven novels. Morrison's writing style is characterized by highly distinctive strategies in the development of narrative and in the use of language. As we journey across her body of work as readers, we will examine a range of recurring themes, along with the "love trilogy" on which she focused her repertoire for several years. The course, through a comprehensive, chronological and focused look at Morrison's body of novels, will help students who entirely lack familiarity with it to gain a strong foundation for further research and study. By the end of the course, even students who already know Morrison's work will walk away with a deeper and more nuanced understanding of it. The course will help students to reinforce their skills in reading fiction, and more astute and exacting readers of the novel as a genre.#
&ENGL 4511 | The Global South Novel and World Literature&
#The driving dialectic in post-colonial studies has been the colonizer/colonized, or the Third World vs. the West. But slowly the field is letting go of this "arrested dialectic" and in its place various triangulations are emerging: e.g. transnationalism, world literature, the global novel, and global south literary studies. Starting with a walk through the emerging theoretical concepts of world/global/transnational literature, we will primarily focus on a global south reading of African literature (itself a contested term), and perennial questions around language and translation. Specifically we will look at how writers such as Chimamanda Adichie, V.S. Naipul, NoViolet Bulawayo, and MG Vassanji challenge the post-colonial discourse and how a global south reading provides an uncomfortable conversation with transnational and world literature theories and concepts.#
&ENGL 4556 | Decolonial Poetics and Aesthetics: Arts of Resistance in the Americas&
#Exploring a genealogy of Latinx, Afro-Latinx, Black, Indigenous, and Chicana/o/x theorizations of modernity and identity, the course asks, what is the decolonial? Is it a space between the colonial and post-colonial? Is it a creative process, an intellectual theorization, or a historical period? Is it a performance, intervention, or embodied experience? Tracing a historical trajectory of the decolonial in poetry, performance, installation, and visual art, the course examines decolonial modes of making and being from the sixteenth to the twenty first century.#
&ENGL 4567 | Speculative East Asias&
#We will examine cultural productions by East and Southeast Asians and their diasporas that imagine speculative, science fictional, magical realist, weird realist, or otherwise non-realist worlds. Paying particular attention to the legacies of militarism and empire, we will consider how imaginaries of East Asia are entangled with the U.S.-led Cold War system, the post-Cold War dominance of finance capitalism, and climate change. Tracking connections between diverse regions and peoples, we will explore how Asians and Asian diasporas dovetail in their visions of historical memory, present-day crisis, and future possibilities. These speculative worlds will prompt us to reflect on the world we live in now and the histories we have inherited.#
&ENGL 4577 | Desbordando: Reading Caribbean Waters in Latinx Studies&
#As Latinx studies continues to expand beyond its nationalistic origins and re-examines its geographical bounds, nuancing the role of borders within the field becomes urgent. This course probes at the primacy of the border in Latinx studies by centering Caribbean waters. As a liquid that refuses to succumb to the violence of fragmentation and instead embodies iterations of radical wholeness, water has an innate capacity to "undo" borders, a quality epitomized by the Spanish verb "desbordar" (to overflow). Through discussion and analysis of key Latinx cultural products we will gain an appreciation for the multiple ways in which water sustains provocative contradictions across borders regarding representations of historical memory, gender and sexuality, migration, race, and religion and spirituality, among others.#
&ENGL 4700 | Reading the Media of Joyce's Ulysses&
#This class offers the opportunity to read James Joyce's epic novel Ulysses in relation to major concepts and methods of media studies, book history, and material text scholarship.  Challenging, multifarious, and often very funny, Ulysses takes place over the course of a single day in the colonized metropolis of Dublin at the dawn of the age of global communications.  Drawing upon the unique resources of Cornell University Library (including its important collection of Joyce manuscripts) and Cornell Cinema, this class will attend to the numerous forms of media Joyce describes and imagines, to the conditions of print publication that made the novel possible (and others that tried to ban it), and to the electric and electronic media art that responded to Ulysses and tried to reproduce its effects.#
&ENGL 4765 | The Twenty-First Century Novel&
#What innovations in form, style, genre, and subject matter have characterized the novel in the 21st century? What is the status of the novel in the wake of postmodernism, postcolonialism, poststructuralism, post-humanism, and the other "posts" of literary theory? Are we witnessing a blurring of theory and fiction? This course will explore a number of key developments and trends in the 21st century novel, such as the rise of genre fiction (fantasy, science fiction, the Western, the "rock novel"), speculative fiction, new historical realisms, comic/graphic novels, philosophical fiction, among others trends. Our writers may include Zadie Smith, Kazuo Ishiguro, J.M. Coetzee, Percival Everett, Colson Whitehead, Toni Morrison, Ali Smith, Sally Rooney, Tom McCarthy, David Mitchell, and Jennifer Egan.#
&ENGL 4771 | Social Media and Contemporary Literature&
#This seminar investigates the role of social media in contemporary literary production and reception. We will understand both "social media" and "literature" broadly, examining literature about and written for social media, online communities focused on book reviewing such as BookTube and Goodreads, platforms for social reading and writing like Wattpad and AO3, and the use of social media by publishers and authors in promoting literature. We will read scholarship in media studies, reception studies, and publishing studies to understand how social media shapes the contemporary literary field and how literature shapes social media. Throughout, we will ask what it means to consider literature as a social phenomenon, foregrounding questions about its conditions of production and the people who read and respond to it online.#
&ENGL 4780 | Truth and Media: Searching for Epistemological Certainty&
#This course focuses on questions both timely—"How can news be fake?"—and timeless—"What counts as the truth?" Each of our four course units will present scenes in the history of technology that complicate the answers to these questions. How, for example, has Big Data revived the idea of theological omniscience that Nietzsche pronounced dead in 1882? How did atlases and encyclopedias inform the notion of "scientific objectivity" in the 19th century? How has photography and film complicated the truism, "I'll believe it when I see it"? Focusing on these and other moments of historical certainty and doubt, we will return to contemporary debates about the role of communication technology in presenting facts ("alternative" or otherwise) to an informed public. We will end our course by questioning what type of hope, confidence or resistance we can find in a world without a solid epistemological foundation for truth.#
&ENGL 4795 | Climate Communications Capstone&
#No description available.#
&ENGL 4800 | Advanced Poetry Writing&
#This course is intended for creative writers who have completed  ENGL 3840 and wish to refine their poetry writing. It may include significant reading and discussion, explorations of form and technique, completion of writing assignments and prompts, and workshop peer review of student work. In addition to the instructor's assigned writing requirements, students may work on longer-form verse writing projects.#
&ENGL 4801 | Advanced Narrative Writing&
#This course is intended for narrative writing students who have completed ENGL 3820 and wish to refine their writing. It may include significant reading and discussion, explorations of form and technique, completion of writing assignments and prompts, and workshop peer review of student work. In addition to the instructor's assigned writing requirements, students may work on longer-form narrative writing projects.#
&ENGL 4850 | Reading for Writers&
#Reading for Writers examines literary works through the eyes of a writer, focusing on the craft of literature. Topics vary with each section and semester and may focus on fiction, poetry, or both. Please see the class roster for a description.#
&ENGL 4910 | Honors Seminar I&
#No description available.#
&ENGL 4940 | Honors Essay Tutorial II&
#This course is the second of a two-part series of courses required for students pursuing a Bachelor of Arts with Honors in English. The first course in the series is ENGL 4930 Honors Essay Tutorial I.#
&ENGL 4950 | Independent Study&
#Independent reading course in topics not covered in regularly scheduled courses. Students select a topic in consultation with the faculty member who has agreed to supervise the course work.#
&ENGL 6021 | Literary Theory on the Edge&
#This course examines a range of exciting and provocative 20th- and 21st- century theoretical paradigms for thinking about literature, language and culture. These approaches provide differing, though often overlapping, entryways into theoretical analysis, including structuralism and post-structuralism, translation studies, Black studies, Afro-Diasporic Studies, postcolonial and decolonial studies, performance studies, media theory and cinema/media studies, the digital humanities, psychoanalysis and trauma theory, gender studies and queer studies, studies of the Anthropocene/environmental studies, and animal studies. Occasional invited guests, lectures and class discussions will provide students with a facility for close textual analysis, a knowledge of major currents of thought in the humanities, and an appreciation for the uniqueness and complexity of language and media.#
&ENGL 6120 | Beowulf&
#Beowulf has received renewed attention in popular culture, thanks to the production of recent movies and riveting new translations. The poem's popular appeal lies in its complex depictions of monsters, its accounts of heroic bravery, and its lavish portrayals of life in the Meadhall. Through close readings we will also explore the "darker side" of the poem: its punishing depictions of loss and exile, despairing meditations on unstable kingship and dynastic failure, and harrowing depictions of heroic defeat and the vanities of existence on the Middle-Earth. Attention will be given to the poem's cultural contexts, its literary heritage, and its layered pagan and Christian perspectives. A bilingual edition of the poem will be assigned so that students may read in Old and Modern English.#
&ENGL 6133 | From the Conquest to Caxton: Middle English Language, Literatures, History&
#This seminar will explore the English language and its literatures in its most diverse centuries, which 19th century philologists saw as the "middle" span: after the collapse of Old English language, poetic style, and indigenous power-centers at the Norman Conquest (1066), up to printing (1476), the beginnings of "standard Modern English," claims to an "English literary tradition," and the origins of Atlantic adventurism and imperialism. Between those benchmarks we'll consider multilingualism, English linguistic diversity and changes, social identity, literary forms, and ideas about language and literature, sampling many Middle English works and more fully reading the "Katherine Group," Gawain-poet, Piers Plowman, and Julian of Norwich's Showings.#
&ENGL 6155 | Theory and Analysis of Narrative&
#How do narratives work? What kinds of social functions do stories perform? And how can the theory and analysis of narrative help us to grasp and shape power relations? The course will introduce the history of classical narrative theory, from Aristotle and Lessing to Todorov and Genette, but it will focus especially on new trends in queer, critical race, and feminist narrative theory, and on the uses of narrative form across disciplines and social spaces. You will be expected to write a few  short responses to the readings, practice giving a formal conference-style oral presentation, and write a final essay based on the conference paper.#
&ENGL 6460 | Studies in Victorian Literature: Reading Feeling&
#From rich paradigms of sympathy and sentiment adapted from the eighteenth century to newer theories of unconsciousness and crowd psychology, Victorian literature reflects shifting conceptions of feeling. This course examines how psychological claims ground the forms and experiences of reading in the Victorian period, as well as the recent theoretical turn to affect, which emerged in particular rejoinder to critical trends in Victorian studies. What evidence is there that emotions are experienced, discussed, or represented in historically and culturally specific ways? How does the work of feeling register in literary form? Readings will include novels (Brontë, Dickens, Eliot, Hardy, Schreiner); narrative poems (Barrett Browning, Tennyson, Meredith); contemporary prose; and theoretical engagements with affect (Armstrong, Felski, Deleuze, Sedgwick, Ngai, Berlant, recent debates in Critical Inquiry).#
&ENGL 6485 | The Rise of the African Novel: Politics of Language&
#We shall look at early South African and African-language literature of the late 1880s through the early 1940s in relation to the literature of decolonization that spanned the 1950s through the 1980s, and the contemporary generation of established and emerging continental and diaspora African writers of international renown. Some of the questions around the misreading of African literature will include: Why did Chinua Achebe's generation privilege African literature in English despite the early South African example? What are the costs of locating the start of Africa's literary tradition in the wrong literary and historical period? What does it mean for the current generation of writers and scholars of African literature not to have an imaginative consciousness of their literary past?#
&ENGL 6525 | Modernism, Media, and Mediation&
#What was the position of literary writing among the new media technologies that emerged in the first half of the twentieth century?  How did modernist writers respond to a social and political situation in which access to media and information was at once widely distributed, and consolidated by corporations and the state?  This class pursues continuities between past and present, against today's claims of heroically disruptive innovation and new crises for literature. Ths course will engage key media theorists in the context of extended analyses of two major 20th-century works — James Joyce's Ulysses and Langston Hughes's Ask Your Mama — among other key intertexts of the period.#
&ENGL 6565 | Decolonial Poetics and Aesthetics: Arts of Resistance in the Americas&
#Exploring a genealogy of Latinx, Afro-Latinx, Black, Indigenous, and Chicana/o/x theorizations of modernity and identity, the course asks, what is the decolonial? Is it a space between the colonial and post-colonial? Is it a creative process, an intellectual theorization, or a historical period? Is it a performance, intervention, or embodied experience? Tracing a historical trajectory of the decolonial in poetry, performance, installation, and visual art, the course examines decolonial modes of making and being from the sixteenth to the twenty first century.#
&ENGL 6710 | Law and Literature&
#What can lawyers and judges learn from the study of literature? This course explores the relevance of imaginative literature (novels, drama, poetry, and film) to questions of law and social justice from a range of perspectives. We will consider debates about how literature can help to humanize legal decision-making; how storytelling has helped to give voice to oppressed populations over history; how narratives of suffering cultivate popular support for human rights; the role played by storytelling in a trial; and how literature can shed light on the limits of law and public policy.#
&ENGL 6815 | Poiesis&
#Considering the etymological roots of "poetry," this course explores the idea of poetry as making, creation, fabrication, composition. How have poets and theorists of lyric understood the relationship between poetry and creation and between poetry and worldmaking?  How and under what circumstances did poetry come to be identified as making and doing rather than observing and knowing?  To get a better grip on this peculiar idea of "making" that links language to materiality, to the body, and to the polity, we'll explore the relationship between poiesis and mimesis, poiesis and techne, and poiesis and praxis.#
&ENGL 7800 | MFA Seminar: Poetry&
#The MFA poetry seminar is a required course for MFA poetry students.#
&ENGL 7801 | MFA Seminar: Fiction&
#The MFA fiction seminar is a required course for all MFA fiction students.#
&ENGL 7850 | Reading for Writers&
#In general, Reading for Writers examines literary works through the eyes of a writer, focusing on the craft of literature. While the class is geared toward MFA students, all graduate students are welcome to enroll. Topics vary with each section and semester. For descriptions, please consult the class roster.#
&ENGL 7890 | Pedagogical and Thesis Development&
#This is a required course for students pursuing an MFA degree in Creative Writing. The course will focus on the pedagogical methodology and philosophical approaches to teaching creative writing. The workshop format will include readings, guest speakers, lesson plan development, and the vetting of syllabi. Graduate students in both poetry and fiction will share ideas on teaching and thesis development.#
&ENGL 7940 | Directed Study&
#This course gives students the opportunity to work with a selected instructor to pursue special interests or research not treated in regularly scheduled courses. After getting permission of the instructor, students should contact the department to request access to an instructor's section. Enrolled students are required to provide the department with a course description and/or syllabus along with the instructor's approval by the end of the first week of classes.#
&ENGL 7950 | Group Study&
#This course should be used for an independent study in which a small group of students works with one member of the graduate faculty. After getting permission of the instructor, students should contact the department to request access to an instructor's section. Enrolled students are required to provide the department with a course description and/or syllabus along with the instructor's approval by the end of the first week of classes.#


$ENGRC | Engineering Communications$
&ENGRC 3023 | Communication Intensive Opportunity: Practicum in Technical Writing&
#One-credit attachment to an existing engineering course that is not one of the officially designated W-I courses. It may be taken more than once, with different courses by permission of a particular engineering faculty member.#
&ENGRC 3025 | Creating and Communicating Your Digital Professionalism&
#Senior-level course focused on creating and communicating an online professional identity. The key learning outcome is to enable students to develop digital professionalism, defined as a multimodal communicative competence honed through the practice of creating, critiquing, and reflecting upon digital artifacts they use to build and present their professional and public identities. The course will focus students' attention on (i) Production: What are the implications of using a particular platform to create a professional self? (ii) Representation: What tools do they need to analyze their own multimodal presentation of their professional selves? (iii) Circulation: What are the effects of having online representations of themselves as professionals? and (iv) Audience: What are their expectations about who will be viewing/interpreting those professional selves and for what purpose?#
&ENGRC 3027 | Cross-cultural Communications and Ethics in the Workplace&
#Engineering industries increasingly demand individual contributors and teams that can communicate and collaborate with professionals across diverse cultures. The purpose of this course is to increase students' cultural awareness and sensitivity and develop intercultural competence while engaging positively in technical work. Course topics will focus on engineering communication and practices of human-centered design, thereby exposing cultural dimensions and ethical consequences of human-engineered artifacts. Through various kinds of genre writing practice and a major teamwork project, students are expected to improve written, oral, visual and interpersonal communication skills as well.#
&ENGRC 3120 | Communications for Practical Tools for Operations Research, Machine Learning and Data Science&
#This course prepares students for important ORIE engineering communication activities, e.g., introduction to engineering communication, presentations (proposal, progress, final), visuals and captions, technical reports, and teamwork.#
&ENGRC 3152 | Communication for Game Development&
#As students develop desktop video games in large teams, they will concurrently be writing documentation to a variety of audiences for a myriad of technical, business, and design needs. Together, students in their teams will write entry-level workflow documents, specifications, planning, marketing, and project management pieces that have the specific task of always moving the team's work forward. The communication tasks are not extras; rather, they are integral to the game dev process. Iterations and deep revising will be part of this process, with inputs from both the CS instructor and the communication instructor.#
&ENGRC 3341 | Guided Fieldwork for Engineering Communications&
#Provides individual students opportunity to pursue guided fieldwork in their major, and includes significant engineering communication opportunities. Success in the course relies on commitment from both the student and their College of Engineering mentoring faculty selected from within their major. This course requires students to go above and beyond regular coursework expectations and can take the form of undergraduate research, independent study, an honors project, or even an outreach activity.#
&ENGRC 3350 | Organizational Communications for Engineers&
#Like ENGRC 3500 in that students write various types of documents (e.g., letters, memos, executive summaries, progress reports), give talks, and incorporate graphics in both their oral and written work. However, ENGRC 3350 focuses on understanding communication within engineering organizations and within student teams. Students work in project teams throughout the semester to write reports and deliver talks. The focus of the project teams depends on instructor, but might include analyzing case studies of engineering organizations, studying organizations on-site, and analyzing concepts in organizational communication and behavior.#
&ENGRC 3500 | Engineering Communications&
#Prepares students for important communication activities. Students will communicate using various types of written communication which may include emails, memos, problem analyses, proposals, progress reports, or other genres. Students will give oral presentations and incorporate graphics in their oral and written work. Students learn how to communicate specialized information to different audiences (e.g., technical and nontechnical audiences, colleagues and clients, peers and supervisors, and in-house departments), work in teams, and address organizational and ethical issues including using GenAI, racism, equity, inclusiveness, and accessibility. The course material is drawn from professional contexts, principally engineering, and it generates lively discussion.#
&ENGRC 3610 | Communication for Transportation Engineering&
#This engineering communications course is linked with CEE 3610. This course prepares students for important engineering communication activities including presentations, visuals and captions, technical reports, white papers, public communication, feedback to colleagues, and teamwork.#
&ENGRC 4152 | Communication for Advanced Game Development&
#As students develop mobile video games in large teams, they will concurrently be writing documentation to a variety of audiences for a myriad of technical, business, and design needs. Together, students in their teams will write workflow documents, specifications, planning, marketing, video scripting, and project management pieces that have the specific task of always moving the team's work forward. The communication tasks are not extras; rather, they are integral to the game dev process. Iterations and deep revising will be part of this process, with inputs from both the CS instructor and the communication instructor. As well, students will hone their skills for team stand-up presentations.#


$ENGRD | Engineering Distribution$
&ENGRD 2020 | Statics and Mechanics of Solids&
#This course presents the methods for analyzing deformable structures in equilibrium. It is fundamental to mechanical analysis and design and is the basis for many advanced courses and professions in mechanical, civil, materials, biomedical and biological engineering.#
&ENGRD 2100 | Introduction to Circuits for Electrical and Computer Engineers&
#This course is an introduction to electronic circuits. We start with the basic quantities used to characterize circuit operation (like current, voltage, and power) and then enforce several physical laws to form the basis of our approach to circuit analysis. Networks comprising passive circuit elements such as resistors, inductors, and capacitors will be examined under constant dc, transient, and sinusoidal steady-state conditions. Active components including transistors and Op-Amps will be introduced and used to build simple amplifiers and switching power converters. Many of these ideas will be unified mathematically through the use of Laplace transforms and associated transfer functions. In the lab part of the course, we will learn how to use modern instruments to test circuits, and explore the concepts from lecture applied to real circuits. Finally, we will develop some simple modeling software in MATLAB to numerically predict the results from analysis and experiment.#
&ENGRD 2110 | Object-Oriented Programming and Data Structures&
#Intermediate programming in a high-level language and introduction to software engineering. Topics include object-oriented programming (objects, classes, subtypes, encapsulation, polymorphism), program correctness (specifications, invariants, testing), algorithm analysis (asymptotic complexity, big "O" notation), recursion, data structures (lists, trees, stacks, queues, heaps, hash tables, graphs), iteration and searching/sorting, graph algorithms, and concurrent and event-driven programming (graphical user interfaces, synchronization). Java is the principal programming language.#
&ENGRD 2140 | Computer Systems Programming&
#Computer systems programming involves developing software to connect the low-level computer hardware to high-level, user-facing application software. This course will provide a strong foundation in the principles, practices, and art of computer systems programming using the C and C++ programming languages. Students will learn procedural programming in C and how to theoretically analyze and practically implement basic data structures and algorithms. Students will transition to C++ to explore object-oriented, generic, functional, and concurrent programming before exploring advanced data structures and algorithms involving trees, tables, and graphs. Students will explore systems programming using the POSIX standard library. The course includes a series of programming assignments for students to put the principles they have learned into practice. For more information, see https://www.csl.cornell.edu/courses/ece2400.#
&ENGRD 2250 | The Earth System&
#EAS 2250 provides a broad math-, physics-, and chemistry-based introduction to the earth sciences, including geology, paleontology, oceanography, and atmospheric science. Topics covered include formation of the Earth, the chemistry and physics of the Earth's interior, plate tectonics, weathering and erosion, soil development, stream and groundwater flow, volcanism and crustal deformation, the evolution of life, ocean and atmospheric structure, circulation and heat transport, ocean waves and tides, generation of storms, seawater chemistry, mineral and energy resources, and climate change.#
&ENGRD 2300 | Digital Logic and Computer Organization&
#This course provides an introduction to the design and implementation of digital circuits and microprocessors. Topics include transistor network design, Boolean algebra, combinational circuits, sequential circuits, finite state machine design, processor pipelines, and memory hierarchy. Design methodology using both discrete components and hardware description languages is covered in the laboratory portion of the course.#
&ENGRD 2400 | Observing the Earth: Remote Sensing and GIS&
#While the environmental challenges and hazards facing society over the next decades are diverse and complex, the next generation of scientists and engineers can look forward to a steadily increasing family of space-based observations that will help us better understand the ongoing changes. This data can enable researchers to highlight potential problems and gain the attention of decision-makers, and to evaluate the efficacy of attempts at mitigation so that we can redirect our efforts into the most useful avenues. Examples of engineering solutions that require evaluation of their outcomes include management and maintenance of coastal infrastructure, flood control or dam-building, and efforts to change land cover/land use. In this course, we will study the key questions facing our planet today, and explore the use of relevant data from current and future satellite missions. We will introduce students to Geographical Information Systems (GIS) and other methods for viewing and manipulating data. We will build from analysis of individual images, including multispectral imagery, and extend to time-series analysis of both optical and microwave data. Students will design and present a capstone project involving satellite data analysis and interpretation.#
&ENGRD 2550 | Engineering Quantum Information Hardware&
#This course examines the physical hardware of quantum information processing, quantum communication, and quantum sensing technologies. Topics include an analysis of qubit attributes and an introduction to the operational principles of physical qubits. Specific systems will include photonic circuits, trapped ions, superconducting quantum circuits, isolated solid-state spins and quantum dots.#
&ENGRD 2620 | Electronic Materials for the Information Age&
#Examines the electrical and optical properties of materials. Topics include the mechanism of electrical conduction in metals, semiconductors and insulators; tuning of electrical properties in semiconductors, charge transport across metal/semiconductor and semiconductor/semiconductor junctions, and the interaction of materials with light; semiconductor electronic devices; and the materials science of device fabrication. Applications in microelectronics, solar cells, electronics, and display technologies are discussed. Semiweekly labs provide hands-on experience characterizing electronic materials and devices.#
&ENGRD 2700 | Eng Probability and Statistics: Modeling and Data Science&
#Gives students a working knowledge of basic probability and statistics and their application to engineering. Includes computer analysis of data and simulation. Topics include random variables, probability distributions, expectation, estimation, testing, experimental design, quality control, and regression.#
&ENGRD 2720 | Data Science for Engineers&
#An introduction to data science for engineers. The data science workflow: acquisition and cleansing, exploration and modeling, prediction and decision making, visualization and presentation. Tools for data science including numerical optimization, the Discrete Fourier Transform, Principal Component Analysis, and probability with a focus on statistical inference and correlation methods. Techniques for different steps in the workflow including outlier detection, filtering, regression, classification, and techniques for avoiding overfitting. Methods for combining domain-agnostic data analysis tools with the types of domain-specific knowledge that are common in engineering. Ethical considerations. Optional topics include classification via neural networks, outlier detection, and Markov chains. Programming projects in Python.#
&ENGRD 3200 | Engineering Computation&
#Introduction to numerical methods, computational mathematics, and probability and statistics. Development of programming and graphics proficiency with MATLAB and spreadsheets. Topics include Taylor-series approximations, numerical errors, condition numbers, operation counts, convergence, and stability, probability distributions, hypothesis testing. Included are numerical methods for solving engineering problems that entail roots of functions, simultaneous linear equations, statistics, regression, interpolation, numerical differentiation and integration, and solution of ordinary and partial differential equations, including an introduction to finite difference methods. Applications are drawn from different areas of engineering. A group project uses these methods on a realistic engineering problem.#


$ENGRG | Engineering General Interest$
&ENGRG 1009 | AEW Collaborative Workshop: CHEM 2090&
#Academic Excellence Workshop for CHEM 2090. Weekly two-hour collaborative learning sessions. Peer-facilitated group works on problems at or above the level of course material, designed to enhance understanding of core concepts in CHEM 2090.#
&ENGRG 1010 | AEW Collaborative Workshop: CS 1110&
#Academic Excellence Workshop for CS 1110. Weekly two-hour collaborative learning sessions. Peer-facilitated group works on problems at or above the level of course material, designed to enhance understanding of core concepts in CS 1110.#
&ENGRG 1011 | AEW Collaborative Workshop: CS 2110&
#Academic Excellence Workshop for CS 2110. Weekly two-hour collaborative learning sessions. Peer-facilitated group works on problems at or above the level of course material, designed to enhance understanding of core concepts in CS 2110.#
&ENGRG 1012 | AEW Collaborative Workshop: CS 1112&
#Academic Excellence Workshop for CS 1112 . Weekly two-hour collaborative learning sessions. Peer-facilitated group works on problems at or above the level of course material, designed to enhance understanding of core concepts in CS 1112.#
&ENGRG 1022 | Kessler Fellows Entrepreneurship Cohort Seminar&
#The purpose of the course is to prepare Jiang Fellows for a summer internship at a startup. Course introduces Jiang Fellows to the startup culture, job skills, and methods to evaluate possible internship opportunities. Students will also be introduced to the entrepreneurship ecosystem at Cornell and the various entrepreneurship resources available. Topics to be discussed include: interview skills and expected questions, conducting research on private companies, employee roles and responsibilities at startups, role of a product manager, creating "OKRs" (Objectives and Key Results), venture financing, and the Business Model Canvas and critically thinking about startups. Will include guest speakers from current startups.#
&ENGRG 1028 | AEW Collaborative Workshop: CS 2800&
#Academic Excellence Workshop for CS 2800. Weekly two-hour collaborative learning sessions. Peer-facilitated group works on problems at or above the level of course material, designed to enhance understanding of core concepts in CS 2800.#
&ENGRG 1031 | AEW Collaborative Workshop: CS 3110&
#Academic Excellence Workshop for CS 3110. Weekly two-hour collaborative learning sessions. Peer-facilitated group works on problems at or above the level of course material, designed to enhance understanding of core concepts in CS 3110.#
&ENGRG 1034 | AEW Collaborative Workshop: CS 3410&
#Academic Excellence Workshop for CS 3410. Weekly two-hour collaborative learning sessions. Peer-facilitated group works on problems at or above the level of course material, designed to enhance understanding of core concepts in CS 3410.#
&ENGRG 1091 | AEW Collaborative Workshop: MATH 1910&
#Academic Excellence Workshop for MATH 1910. Weekly two-hour collaborative learning sessions. Peer-facilitated group works on problems at or above the level of course material, designed to enhance understanding of core concepts in MATH 1910.#
&ENGRG 1092 | AEW Collaborative Workshop: MATH 1920&
#Academic Excellence Workshop for MATH 1920. Weekly two-hour collaborative learning sessions. Peer-facilitated group works on problems at or above the level of course material, designed to enhance understanding of core concepts in MATH 1920.#
&ENGRG 1093 | AEW Collaborative Workshop: MATH 2930&
#Academic Excellence Workshop for MATH 2930. Weekly two-hour collaborative learning sessions. Peer-facilitated group works on problems at or above the level of course material, designed to enhance understanding of core concepts in MATH 2930.#
&ENGRG 1094 | AEW Collaborative Workshop: MATH 2940&
#Academic Excellence Workshop for MATH 2940. Weekly two-hour collaborative learning sessions. Peer-facilitated group works on problems at or above the level of course material, designed to enhance understanding of core concepts in MATH 2940.#
&ENGRG 1152 | Coaching and Mentoring for Professional and Student Success&
#This class will help you engineer your life to get the most out of your undergraduate experience now while building foundational professional skills for the future. Meetings with an assigned engineering alumni mentor-coach will expand your network and give you a window into the non-technical aspects of the practice of engineering. Class sessions provide tools for strategic decision-making about the many opportunities you have at Cornell to develop teamwork, leadership, and related skills. Through COMPASS, you will gain a clear sense of your values, interests, strengths, and areas for development as well as a plan for the remainder of your Cornell experience.#
&ENGRG 1400 | Engineering Project Team Onboarding&
#Students who are joining an Engineering Project Team for the first time will be introduced to the program and to information and skills needed for success as a project team member.  Topics will include a broad orientation to the Engineering Project Teams, safety, communication, giving and accepting feedback, and expectations for culture and behavior.  Students may enroll concurrently with one or two credits of additional team-specific project team coursework. The course is intended for and required of all new project team members.#
&ENGRG 3230 | Engineering Economics and Management&
#Introduction to engineering and business economics investment alternatives and to project management. Intended to give students a working knowledge of money management and how to make economic comparisons of alternatives involving future benefits and cost. The impact of inflation, taxation, depreciation, financial planning, economic optimization, project scheduling, and legal and regulatory issues are introduced and applied to economic investment and planning and project-management problems.#
&ENGRG 3400 | Engineering Student Project Teams&
#Intended for student members of Engineering Student Project Teams. Project Team students work in an applied setting that fosters knowledge transfer from the classroom to practice and development of professional skills necessary to work in multidisciplinary teams. Students will regularly attend team meetings as well as work on their own. An individual final deliverable on the project is required of each student.#
&ENGRG 3600 | Ethical Issues in Engineering Practice&
#This course surveys a range of ethical issues that arise in professional engineering, and provides discussion-based practice in analyzing and addressing them. Using normative frameworks from professional codes, philosophical ethics, value-sensitive design, feminist theory, and science & technology studies, the course engages with a series of historical, current, and fictional case studies, across a wide variety of engineering disciplines. Specific topics to be discussed may include: privacy, consumer rights, smart cities, geoengineering, artificial intelligence, and cloning. Instruction is through a mix of lectures and discussions.#
&ENGRG 4400 | Engineering Student Project Team Leadership&
#This skills-based, experiential learning course will use students' project team experiences as a vehicle to learn about, practice, and refine critical leadership skills. Students will have access to one on one and small group coaching throughout their enrollment in the course.#
&ENGRG 4610 | Entrepreneurship for Engineers&
#No description available.#
&ENGRG 4820 | Eng Leader Skill Clinic: Difficult Conversations&
#LSC: Difficult Conversations will enable you to communicate effectively in situations that may be uncomfortable but are critical to team success.  You'll learn a process and language for recognizing and working through these situations. During the action interval, you will apply these skills in a real-world situation and reflect on your experience. The second and final workshop is dedicated to sharing your 'lessons learned' and forming a plan to continue to practice the skills learned.#
&ENGRG 4830 | Eng Leader Skill Clinic: Giving Feedback&
#LSC: Giving Feedback will give you a framework, method, and language for giving others feedback. You'll learn how to take the sting out of critical feedback and be more comfortable offering feedback for the sake of team success. During the action interval, you'll apply these skills in real-world situations and reflect on your experience. The second and final workshop is dedicated to sharing your 'lessons learned' and forming a plan to continue to practice the skill learned.#
&ENGRG 4845 | Eng Leader Skill Clinic: Leading from Strength&
#Engineering Leadership Skills Clinics are action-oriented, short-term classes that build your confidence and capabilities in engineering teamwork and leadership. Each Clinic comprises two interactive workshops separated by an Action Interval in which you will experiment with new skills and analyze the results. The time commitment is about ten hours over three weeks.#
&ENGRG 4960 | Entrepreneurial Practicum in Engineering&
#This course provides a means by which engineering students can develop and refine their innovative technical ideas.  The course is tailored to individual student or student group needs, linking them with mentors and resources, including prototyping facilities, to help enable them to move their innovative ideas forward.#
&ENGRG 4990 | Teaching in Engineering Leadership&
#Teaching assistant responsibilities include class preparation, grading, and assisting students with class logistics. Regular class duties includes monitoring student class participation and facilitating exercises and discussions. Teaching assistants will help facilitate two outside-of-class retreats in the spring semester.#
&ENGRG 4998 | Engineering Practical Training&
#This independent study course offers engineering students an opportunity to reflect on professional and personal growth, challenges, and opportunities resulting from a recent internship in the USA (Curricular Practical Training, CPT). Typically, these internships take place in the summer and students, in the semester they return to campus, write a short paper describing their work experience and how it connects to the educational objectives of their  major. The value of the course is in the reflection on expectations, successes, challenges and skills and knowledge gained during the internship in the United States.#
&ENGRG 5330 | Engineering Professionalism&
#The primary focus is to prepare students for the Fundamentals of Engineering (FE) exam, which is the first step in obtaining a Professional Engineering license. Students complete a formal comprehensive review of engineering subjects associated with the FE exam. Engineering professionalism topics will be covered in some of the lectures or asynchronous videos.#
&ENGRG 5351 | Professional Development for Master of Engineering Students&
#This course is dedicated to fostering overall professional growth and enhancement. Students will explore advanced techniques for leveraging their strengths and experiences to advance their careers. Through engaging discussions and immersive activities, they will refine their communication skills, leadership abilities, and emotional intelligence. Topics include personal branding, navigating team dynamics in the workplace, and career goal setting. Students will also delve into strategies for continuous learning and adaptation in an ever-evolving professional landscape.#
&ENGRG 6780 | Teaching Seminar&
#Independent study promoting reflection on teaching styles and experiences for graduate student teaching assistants in the College of Engineering. Participants may be concurrently fulfilling a TA assignment or must have done so in the past. Requirements include participation and completion of the College of Engineering's TA Development Program. This course is designed to provide Cornell Engineering TAs with the opportunity to process their understanding of teaching and learning through the formulation of questions, concepts, and theories related to their experiences.#
&ENGRG 7930 | Peer Mentoring and Leadership Essentials&
#This course develops fundamental communication, coaching, mentorship and leadership skills for PhD students.  It is designed specifically for PhD mentors in the Ezra's Bridge program; however, the course is appropriate for all PhD students who wish to be more effective lab members and leaders.#


$ENGRI | Engineering Introduction$
&ENGRI 1100 | Lasers and Photonics&
#Lasers have had an enormous impact on communications, medicine, remote sensing, and material processing. This course reviews the properties of light that are essential to understanding the underlying principles of lasers and these photonic technologies. There also is a strong, hands-on laboratory component in which the students build and operate a nitrogen laser and participate in several demonstration experiments such as holography, laser processing of materials, optical tweezers, and fiber optics.#
&ENGRI 1101 | Engineering Applications of Operations Research&
#Introduction to the problems and methods of operations research and information engineering focusing on problem areas (including inventory, network design, and resource allocation), the situations in which these problems arise, and several standard solution techniques. In the computational laboratory, students encounter problem simulations and use some standard commercial software packages.#
&ENGRI 1130 | Sustainable Engineering of Energy, Water, Soil, and Air Resources&
#Course introduces concepts and tools required for the sustainable management of energy, water, soil, and air resources in our modern society.  Semester is organized into four modules, each concentrating on one resource area and including a case study of local or regional significance.  Students work in teams to address sustainability problems that arise in the case studies.  Each module also includes presentations of technical approaches used in environmental engineering analyses. Project teams will be expected to apply those methods in their case study evaluations and management proposals. Technical approaches include life cycle analysis, mass balance computations, and mathematical modeling of pollutant dynamics in the environment.#
&ENGRI 1165 | Climate Change and You, the Engineer&
#Our current students are the first generation that will feel the impacts of climate change, and the last generation that can do anything about it. The dual objectives of this course are to inform young pre-professional engineers of the factual science in the nexus of climate change/fossil fuels/renewable energy, and to inspire them to dive into that nexus now, and to begin to do something about untangling it as engineers in practice. In this nexus are key issues for civil engineers: water quality/quantity, emissions, renewable energy supply and structures, civil infrastructure systems engineering, energy economics, sustainability in megacities.#
&ENGRI 1180 | How to Build a Habitable Planet&
#Our first human ancestors appeared only six million years ago--4.55 billion years into Earth's history. How did our planet develop the critical ingredients for human life—what are the characteristics that make our Pale Blue Dot suited to host complex life? Should we expect to find life elsewhere on other planets? How has human activity altered the story of the Earth, and what global challenges will Homo sapiens encounter in the coming years to decades? Can we devise and implement solutions to present and future environmental crises? In this course, we will investigate these questions through study of the formation and evolution of our universe, investigate the mechanisms that have led to intelligent life on Earth and quantify the impact of both natural and anthropogenic processes on Earth's changing surface. Students in this course will learn how to analyze and interpret scientific data and apply concepts like mass balance and convection to evaluate Earth as series of complex chemical and physical systems interacting over a breadth of scales.#


$ENMGT | Engineering Management$
&ENMGT 3102 | Basics of Programming in Python&
#The goal of this course is to provide students with a quick introduction to programming that will allow them to use Python as a problem solving tool for work, research, or study, and present a basis for continued learning of Python and other programming tools.#
&ENMGT 5102 | Basics of Programming in Python&
#The goal of this course is to provide students with a quick introduction to programming that will allow them to use Python as a problem solving tool for work, research, or study, and present a basis for continued learning of Python and other programming tools.#
&ENMGT 5300 | Technology Strategy and Roadmapping for Engineering Managers&
#This course will arm students with frameworks to design, implement and scale technologies to transform their organization with sustainable success. Technology is constantly evolving and engineering leaders that deploy these approaches within their organization will position themselves to tackle these opportunities. We will discuss framework and strategies to develop technology strategies informed by best practices from industry and the literature, perform case studies to study successes and failures in this arena, and design a mock technology strategy and roadmap for your organization.#
&ENMGT 5400 | Applications of Artificial Intelligence for Engineering Managers&
#No description available.#
&ENMGT 5500 | Digital Marketing for Engineering Managers&
#No description available.#
&ENMGT 5900 | Project Management&
#Core graduate course in project management for people who will manage technical or engineering projects. Focuses both on the "technical" tools of project management (e.g., methods for planning, scheduling, and control) and the "human" side (e.g., forming a project team, managing performance, resolving conflicts), with somewhat greater emphasis on the latter.#
&ENMGT 5910 | Engineering Management Project&
#As Engineering Managers, you need to embrace both technical and business skills to tackle complex, sociotechnical challenges, while staying on top of the current pace of technological change. In this Engineering Management project course, we are bridging from your coursework to your role as an engineering manager. To get there, you will practice the tools, themes, and techniques learned in your Engineering Management coursework through the scaffolding of a large project. In CEE 5910, you will work in teams to lead and execute a project in collaboration with an industry partner. You will perform an intensive evaluation of some mixture of the technological and management aspects of a major engineering project or system, conducted with a team of students.#
&ENMGT 5920 | Product Management&
#Product Management is one of the fastest growing careers in engineering and technology-based industries. In this course, you will learn the foundations of product management including (i) preparing for success as a product manager, (ii) identifying and targeting customer needs, (iii) prioritizing your project needs, and (iv) designing, developing, and deploying your product across the product life cycle. Using skills developed through course lectures and discussions, you will complete in a project where you will practice the sprint model utilized in most product teams. This course is for students interested in pursuing a career as a product manager in engineering or technology-based companies, learning about the product management competency, or working in a non-traditional tech setting to apply these skills on complex systems.#
&ENMGT 5940 | Economics and Finance for Engineering Management&
#An engineering case based exploration of economic models and methods used in analyses, comparisons, and decision making by engineers and engineering teams. Emphasis will be placed not only on the important calculations, but on understanding, communicating and recording their findings, related assumptions, risks, and situational awareness while improving their ability to work on teams.#
&ENMGT 6030 | Learning to Lead&
#The course is designed for engineers transitioning into management for the first time. The program is for individuals who are between one year prior to and up to five years into their first management assignment (-1 to 5 years). We will use research-based and evidence-based materials in the course. To successfully transition from individual to manager, students will learn how to recognize and develop behaviors and actions needed, how to enhance their leadership skills through self and peer coaching, and how diversity and integrity can be leveraged to optimize production, innovation, creation, and collaboration.#
&ENMGT 6091 | Seminar: Project Management&
#Weekly seminar aimed at M.Eng students, in particular in the engineering management program. Weekly speaker will come from different engineering applications and discuss insights into project management. Seminar is non-participatory.#


$ENTOM | Entomology$
&ENTOM 2010 | Alien Empire: Bizarre Biology of Bugs&
#Insects are the most abundant and diverse animals on earth. This course explores the bizarre biology of insects and their interaction with humans. It examines both the detrimental roles insects play (e.g., pests and vectors of disease) as well as their beneficial roles (e.g., pollination, edible insects, insect products such as waxes, dyes, and silk). The course also explores the symbolic representation of insects in art, literature, and religion.#
&ENTOM 2011 | Alien Empire: Bizarre Biology of Bugs&
#Insects are the most abundant and diverse animals on earth. This course explores the bizarre biology of insects and their interaction with humans. It examines both the detrimental roles insects play (e.g., pests and vectors of disease) as well as their beneficial roles (e.g., pollination, edible insects, insect products such as waxes, dyes, and silk). The course also explores the symbolic representation of insects in art, literature, and religion. Students taking the course meet for small group discussions, debates, demonstrations, and documentary films on the biology of insects. This course is suitable for non-life sciences majors.#
&ENTOM 3030 | Applied Statistics: Biological Experiments in Practice&
#In this course, you will get hands-on experience in how to design, analyze, and interpret biological experiments. This course will be particularly useful if you plan to conduct experiments in a greenhouse or field setting. You will learn to develop a scientific question, formulate biological and statistical hypotheses, derive testable predictions, design and conduct experiments, collect your own data, test the proposed hypotheses using appropriate statistical methods, interpret the statistical results within a broader conceptual framework, and finally present statistical methods and results in written and oral form. You will learn common statistical methods (chi-square tests, t-test, ANOVA, Regression) and in-class workshops will familiarize you with the software to run those statistical tests. This course will be based on the scientific method, and the role statistical analysis play within this method. Writing several papers, based on the experiments you performed and analyzed, will allow you to cement this knowledge for your future research.#
&ENTOM 3690 | Chemical Ecology&
#Why are chilies so spicy? This course examines the chemical basis of interactions between species and is intended for students with a basic knowledge of chemistry and biology. Focuses on the ecology and chemistry of plants, animals, and microbes. Stresses chemical signals used in diverse ecosystems, using Darwinian natural selection as a framework. Topics include: plant defenses, microbial warfare, communication in marine organisms, and human pheromones.#
&ENTOM 4440 | Integrated Pest Management&
#Lectures integrate the principles of pest control, ecology, and economics in the management of pests across multiple systems. Labs consist of exercises to reinforce concepts presented in lecture and demonstrate pest monitoring techniques and the application of computer technology to management problems.#
&ENTOM 4700 | Ecological Genetics&
#Ecological Genetics focuses on the application of population genetic concepts in ecological contexts, with emphases on measuring adaptation in natural populations, detecting the effects of population demography, and determining the genetic basis of quantitative traits. Illustrative examples will be drawn from the primary research literature to demonstrate experimental techniques and methods of data analysis on single-gene, multi-locus and genome-wide scales.#
&ENTOM 4970 | Individual Study in Entomology&
#A student may, with approval of a faculty advisor, study a problem or topic not covered in a regular course or may undertake tutorial study of an independent nature in an area of interest in Entomology.#
&ENTOM 4980 | Undergraduate Teaching&
#Undergraduate teaching assistance in an entomology course by agreement with the instructor. Participating students assist in teaching a course allied with their education and experience. Students are expected to meet regularly with a discussion or laboratory section, to gain teaching experience, and regularly to discuss teaching objectives, techniques, and subject matter with the professor in charge.#
&ENTOM 4990 | Undergraduate Research in Entomology&
#Students must register using CALS Special Studies form available online.#
&ENTOM 5440 | Integrated Pest Management&
#Lectures integrate the principles of pest control, ecology, and economics in the management of pests across multiple systems. Labs consist of exercises to reinforce concepts presented in lecture and demonstrate pest monitoring techniques and the application of computer technology to management problems.#
&ENTOM 6520 | Malaria Biology and Control&
#Malaria represents one of the most daunting global health challenges of the 21st century. Understanding this disease and the biological, social, and epidemiological dimensions of its persistence can aid future global health practitioners in their efforts to eradicate malaria and the many health and economic burdens it creates. This course will delve into the biology of malaria parasites and their interactions with invertebrate and vertebrate hosts during the different phases of their complex life cycles. Global disease trends, prospects for reducing disease burdens, and the most promising and innovative approaches currently in use or under development to control insect vectors and prevent transmission will be thoroughly discussed.#
&ENTOM 6900 | Seminar in Ecology and Evolution of Infectious Diseases&
#Graduate-level discussion of the ecology, epidemiology, genetics, and evolution of infectious disease in animal and plant systems. Weekly discussion of research papers published in the primary scientific literature. Participation in discussion and presentation of at least one paper required for course credit.#
&ENTOM 7070 | Individual Study for Graduate Students&
#Independent or small-group study of special topics of current interest.#
&ENTOM 7090 | Teaching Entomology&
#Teaching entomology or for extension training.#
&ENTOM 7640 | Plant-Insect Interactions Seminar&
#Group intensive study of current research in plant-insect interactions. Topics vary from semester to semester but include chemical defense, coevolution, insect community structure, population regulation, biocontrol, tritrophic interactions, and mutualism.#
&ENTOM 8900 | Master's Level Thesis Research&
#Thesis research conducted by M.S. students in the field of entomology with advice and consultation of a major professor who is a member of the field.#
&ENTOM 9900 | Doctoral Level Thesis Research&
#Dissertation research conducted by a Ph.D. student in the field of entomology with advice and consultation of a major professor who is a member of the field.#


$ENVS | Environment & Sustainability$
&ENVS 1201 | Global Water Sustainability&
#This course will cultivate an interdisciplinary, solution-oriented perspective on water resource challenges from local to global scales. Water is central to all of life, yet its management represents a "wicked challenge" in sustainability science because tradeoffs and feedbacks among multiple objectives are commonplace. Readings and parallel mini-lectures from natural and social science instructors will embrace the diversity of perspectives involved in managing water resources, and students will engage in collaborative problem-solving during class to deepen their understanding of each weekly theme. Meetings with case study experts from around the world will ground this dialog in reality, and all students will participate in debate-style examination of major controversies in water sustainability. Reflective writing assignments will encourage students to assess their own role in achieving water sustainability.#
&ENVS 1500 | An Introduction to the Economics of Environmental and Natural Resources&
#This course provides an introduction to the economic foundations for public decision-making regarding environmental quality and natural resources. Emphasis is placed on how basic tools of economic analysis can be used to identify sources of environmental problems and solutions to these problems. Topics to be covered include "individual hand" concepts underlying market success, market failure with particular focus on public goods and externalities, benefit-cost analysis and non-market valuation, incentive-based policies for controlling pollution, and economic aspects of renewable and non-renewable resources.#
&ENVS 2001 | Perspectives on the Climate Change Challenge&
#This university-wide seminar series provides critically important perspectives on the grand challenge of climate change. Speakers from Cornell University and other institutions will cover a range of topics including the science of climate change, implications for ecosystems, oceans, forests, agriculture and communities, the important ethical, philosophical and legal insights on the issue, and provide thoughts on societal responses through international mechanisms, economic drivers and communication tools. This seminar series counts towards the requirements of the climate change minor and the ESS minor and major.#
&ENVS 2830 | DNA, Genes and Genetic Diversity&
#Covers molecular, Mendelian and population genetic principles as they relate to population biology and biodiversity.  A laboratory section is devoted to problem solving, computer exercises and discussions.  We will focus on mechanisms generating and shaping genetic variation within and among populations, examine the relation of gene expression, and consider conservation relevance of variation at multiple levels. Recommended as a preliminary to upper-level ecology, evolution, and natural resources management courses.#
&ENVS 3260 | Applied Conservation Ecology&
#An interactive-field and lab course designed to provide direct experience with some of the most important field methods and analytical techniques used to examine species, ecosystem and community-level function, structure, and value, especially within the context of contemporary conservation ecology and evolutionary theory. Tools include field sampling techniques, resource and conservation mapping, spatial referencing, GIS, measures of biodiversity, and manual and automated techniques for studying soil, stream, forest, terrestrial, and marine biota and related physical factors. The class is designed to provide a strong background in field research methods and theory related to ecological conservation.#
&ENVS 4103 | Nabokov, Naturally&
#Vladimir Nabokov's legacy at Cornell is not limited to the world-famous literary works he produced here. The university's natural and built environments also provided powerful material for his lifelong pursuit of butterflies within their geo- and biodiverse ecosystems. In this project-oriented course on the writer-lepidopterist, we will read his words, look at his drawings, study his collections of insects and plants, and develop our own modes of engaging with place and planet through a lively science-art practice.#
&ENVS 4700 | Art and Science of the Mohawk River Watershed&
#This experiential, community-engaged interdisciplinary course will introduce students to a range of artistic and ecological practices to understand, interpret, and communicate past and present environmental issues of the Mohawk River Basin. We will dive deep into current topics related to the river basin using the New York Water Resource Institute's Action Agenda items including A) Understanding inequitable distribution of flood, drought, and water scarcity vulnerability in New York State. B) Exploring traditional ecological knowledge and people's history of the river to help to communicate those knowledge systems. C) Learn about water quality, restoration, and riparian systems.#
&ENVS 4795 | Climate Communications Capstone&
#No description available.#
&ENVS 4800 | Wildlife Corridor Conservation & Crossing Design&
#Habitat fragmentation is one of the biggest threats to biodiversity conservation. Ecological connectivity conservation is a growing approach to counter fragmentation and enhance landscape and seascape climate resilience. This course will develop comparative case study assessments of wildlife corridors and wildlife crossing designs as examples of connectivity conservation. Students will learn about ecological connectivity, large landscape/seascape conservation, and road ecology.#
&ENVS 4940 | Capstone Special Topics Course in Environment and Sustainability&
#E&S faculty will offer "trial" capstone courses under this number. Offerings vary by semester and are advertised to the major before the beginning of the semester.#
&ENVS 4960 | Internship in Environment and Sustainability&
#In this course, students participate in an experiential learning opportunity relevant to the student's focus of study or career goals in environment and sustainability. An E&S faculty member must serve as supervisor and complete the term grade report. Specific learning goals for the experience are arranged by the student with their internship faculty supervisor and the internship host prior to the start of the internship. All 4960 internship courses must adhere to the CALS Internship Guidelines. Students from any major or college may enroll in ENVS 4970 using the CALS Special Studies form.#
&ENVS 4970 | Individual Study in Environment and Sustainability&
#Individual studies are arranged under the supervision of one or several E&S faculty members. They provide opportunity to design a course that fills the need of an individual student and addresses pertinent issues in the environmental sciences. Students from any major or college may enroll in ENVS 4970 using the CALS Special Studies form.#
&ENVS 4980 | Teaching Experience in Environment and Sustainability&
#Designed to give qualified undergraduate students teaching experience through actual involvement in planning and assisting in courses in the Environment & Sustainability curriculum. This experience may include facilitating discussion groups and assisting in field or laboratory classes. Undergraduate teaching assistants will regularly discuss course objectives and teaching techniques with the faculty member in charge of the course.#
&ENVS 4990 | Undergraduate Research in Environment and Sustainability&
#Undergraduate research projects in environment and sustainability; contingent on student working with a faculty member to supervise their research.#


$FDSC | Food Science$
&FDSC 1102 | Leadership and Career Skills in Food Science&
#A successful career in food science demands integrating technical knowledge with professionalism and leadership skills. This course utilizes principles in Food Science, self-assessment, industry case studies, and hands on activities to grow students' skills in leadership, team building, networking, and professional readiness.#
&FDSC 1200 | Farm to Label&
#Farm to Label will focus on contemporaneous topics in agriculture and food science covering an eclectic array of areas including the history, technology and products that are part of the food supply. Farm to Label is a dynamic course designed to provide students with a comprehensive understanding of the sustainable agricultural practices and food production processes that underpin the modern food industry. This course delves into critical topics such as agricultural systems, environmental sustainability, food safety, quality control, and marketing strategies. Weekly topics will include: (1) Evolution of things like fire, cooking and meat-eating (2) Historical pathways will be covered on products such as salt, spices and spam (3) Technological advances such as pasteurization, high pressure processing and consumer level technology.#
&FDSC 1500 | Food Choices and Issues&
#The goals of this course are to help students make healthier and safer food choices and critically evaluate contemporary food issues. Topics include: food systems, federal dietary guidelines, relationships between diet and health, the obesity epidemic, vegetarian diets, and the role of food processing and biotechnology in feeding an expanding global population. Contemporary issues related to nutrition and food safety, including food ethics, genetically engineered foods, food allergens, world hunger, and the environmental impact and systainability of food systems are discussed. Students analyze the nutritional quality of their personal diets using Food Tracker and USDA's on-line diet analysis software.#
&FDSC 2100 | Food Analysis&
#Introduces basic analytical techniques for food analysis and other biological analysis. Emphasizes fundamental principles of analytical chemistry, basic laboratory techniques, and modern instrumental methods. Discusses gravimetric, volumetric, and spectrophotometric methods, gas chromatography, high-performance liquid chromatography, infrared spectra, and atomic absorption spectrometry.#
&FDSC 2110 | Food Analysis Laboratory&
#The experiments conducted in Food Analysis lab provide context for the application of principles of food analysis. Students will analyze complex food products for lipids, minerals, carbohydrates, proteins and other components, and through this process, hone their basic lab skills, including organization and time management. Experiments are designed to introduce a variety of techniques commonly used in food science and nutrition analytical labs. The techniques, process, and problems presented to students in this lab will have application for career paths in product development, research and development, quality control, food safety, and industry regulations, among others.#
&FDSC 2206 | Fermentation of Food&
#Fermentation of food changed the course of human history. This course will help interested students learn about fermentations, generally, and concentrate on examples within major categories of fermented foods: fruit, vegetable, dairy, soybean, and grain. We will describe the cultures that developed and consume different fermented foods, and how microbes interact with their environments and with each other during food fermentations. Students in the course will develop an overview of the scientific principles and practices behind fermentation, and gain practical experience in sensory evaluation while increasing their enjoyment of foods.#
&FDSC 2300 | Culinary Science&
#Learn the science behind some favorite and new foods. Working with chefs from Cornell Dining, the underlying principles of the foods prepared in class are explained. The final exam is the preparation of a class dinner.#
&FDSC 2360 | Distillation Principles and Practices&
#As an introduction to the science of distillation this course uses the study of pre-fermentation and fermentation biology, phase separation and vapor-liquid equilibrium, and sensory perception as a vehicle to explore the role of science and technology in the production and enjoyment of distilled beverages. Sensory samples and commercial samples of spirits will be used to illustrate the sensory properties and chemical components which define different types of distilled spirits, with the goal of understanding how different raw materials, processing, and aging impact these sensory properties.#
&FDSC 2400 | Wines and Grapes: Composition and Analysis&
#Investigates the composition of grapes and wine and the most common analytical tools used in their evaluation. Both the theoretical and practical aspects of grape and wine analyses are considered.#
&FDSC 3920 | Food Systems Microbiology&
#The focus of the course will be on food systems and how microbiology impacts the safety and quality of food products. The course will address issues of food product development, quality, safety, and the impact of the microbiome of foods on the individuals that consume it. Topics will include: establishing a product and environmental sampling plan; the impact of raw materials and processing of food shelf-life; food systems approaches to food safety and quality including the economics of raw material selection, processing and packaging; and root cause analysis. Real-world examples will be used to develop critical thinking skills.#
&FDSC 3960 | Food Safety Assurance&
#Food Science 3960/FDSC 5960 will focus on currently used food safety programs to control biological, chemical and physical hazards and assure the safety of foods. Topics include prerequisite programs such as Current Good Manufacturing Practices and Sanitation Standard Operating Procedures, Hazard Analysis Critical Control Point (HACCP), food safety management systems (SQF) and the application of current technologies in reducing foodborne illness. Upon successful completion of the course, the students will receive 1) General HACCP certification and 2) SQF implementation certification (through a collaboration with SQFI [Safe Quality Foods Institute]). These certificates will allow students to be highly qualified for food safety and quality jobs.#
&FDSC 4000 | Capstone Project in Food Science&
#This course is designed to provide students with the opportunity to apply Food Science knowledge and skills to solve specific, real life technical problems incurred by food processors. Under the guidance of faculty mentors, teams consisting of 4 – 5 students will act as consultants for local industry partners working with the New York State Food Venture Center (NYSFVC).#
&FDSC 4040 | Chemistry and Functional Properties of Food Ingredients&
#This is a course with an emphasis on understanding the interactions of food ingredients and their role and functionality in the food product. This course is designed to enable students to utilize a step by step problem solving approach to tackle challenges found in the food industry. Examples of these challenges will be presented as case studies obtained from literature and food industry.#
&FDSC 4170 | Food Chemistry&
#Covers the chemistry of foods and food ingredients. Discusses the chemical and physical properties of water, proteins, lipids, carbohydrates, and other food components and additives in the context of their interactions and functional roles in foods.#
&FDSC 4190 | Food Chemistry Laboratory&
#Deals with the chemical properties of food components and changes they undergo in processing and storage. Stresses relationships between the chemical composition of foods and functional, nutritional, and sensory properties. Introduces lab techniques commonly used in food research. Requires a lab research project that involves writing a research proposal for the project, conducting laboratory research to test hypotheses described in the proposal, analyzing the data, and writing a paper following the format used by the Journal of Food Science.#
&FDSC 4220 | Foods, Dietary Supplements, and Health&
#Covers functional foods and nutraceuticals, bioactive compounds, antioxidants and dietary supplements, micronutrient fortification, botanicals, and herbs in disease prevention and health promotion. Emphasizes the mechanisms of action and scientific evidence of efficacy. Biomarkers, safety and efficacy testing, and regulations for functional foods and nutraceuticals are discussed.#
&FDSC 4250 | Food Processing: Conventional and Emerging Technologies&
#This course is focused on discussing principles and practices fundamental to the processing and storage of foods, using both conventional and emerging food processing technologies. Material covered includes: i) emerging food processing technologies, ii) processing principles for animal products and plant based foods, iii) cleaning and disinfection ion food processing; and iv) byproduct & waste handling and processing. The various concepts will be demonstrated with case studies from commercial processing.#
&FDSC 4260 | We Are What We Eat: Linking Food With Intestinal Functionality and Microbiome&
#Learn how you can impact your overall health by balancing your gut health; how your intestinal functionality, and microbiome are affected by your diet, and how to improve normal gut function. Learn how various chronic conditions and dietary deficiencies (as iron and zinc) may improve the gut digestive and absorptive surface (Brush Border Membrane) functionality and "health promoting" microbiome. In this course you will discuss the literature and learn that the microbiome and intestinal functionality play an important role in maintaining normal gut function, digesting certain nutrients, early life development, behavior and disorders like irritable bowel syndrome, mineral/vitamin deficiencies, obesity and diabetes.#
&FDSC 4340 | Cider Production Laboratory&
#Cider is a fermented beverage made from apples. Students in this course are immersed in cider production and analysis practices through activities in the teaching winery and by visiting commercial cideries. Readings and discussions support the hands-on learning focus in this laboratory course. Significant winery time between weekly class sessions is required.#
&FDSC 4360 | Distillation Principles and Practices Laboratory&
#As an introduction to the science of distillation this course uses the study of pre-fermentation and fermentation biology, phase separation and vapor-liquid equilibrium, and sensory perception as a vehicle to explore the role of science and technology in the production and enjoyment of distilled beverages. Sensory samples and commercial samples of spirits will be used to illustrate the sensory properties and chemical components which define different types of distilled spirits, with the goal of understanding how different raw materials, processing, and aging impact these sensory properties.#
&FDSC 4700 | Advanced Winemaking Theory and Practice II&
#Winemaking Theory and Practice II specifically addresses the non-fermentation aspects of wine production. This area includes fining, stabilization, adjustments, clarification, filtration, bottling, general sanitation, government regulations, oxidation, aging, contributions of oak, and production equipment and materials. Course builds on previous winemaking course material regarding wine production options for different wine styles, including chemical and sensory analysis and chemical and microbial stability.#
&FDSC 4710 | Advanced Winemaking Theory and Practice II Laboratory&
#In the laboratory of part II of the Winemaking Theory and Practice, students continue working with wines produced in the preceding fall term, focusing on aging options, stabilization, fining, and packaging. The laboratory also provides advanced training in wine chemical and sensory analysis. Students must develop their own winemaking finishing plan for several different young wines, and participate in self-guided wine production activities, thus previous experience in wine production is highly recommended.#
&FDSC 4960 | Undergraduate Internship in Food Science&
#On-the-job learning experience under the supervision of professionals in a cooperating organization. A learning contract is written between the faculty supervisor and students, stating the conditions of the work assignment, supervision, and reporting. All 4960 internship courses must adhere to the CALS guidelines at cals.cornell.edu/academics/student-research/internship.#
&FDSC 4970 | Individual Study in Food Science&
#May include individual tutorial study, a special topic selected by a professor or a group of students, or selected lectures of a course already offered. Since topics vary, the course may be repeated for credit.#
&FDSC 4980 | Undergraduate Teaching Experience&
#Students assist in teaching a course appropriate to their previous training and experience. Students meet with a discussion or laboratory section and regularly discuss objectives with the course instructor.#
&FDSC 4990 | Undergraduate Research in Food Science&
#Students conduct original research directed by a food science faculty member.#
&FDSC 5206 | Fermentation of Food&
#Fermentation of food changed the course of human history. This course will help interested students learn about fermentations, generally, and concentrate on examples within major categories of fermented foods: fruit, vegetable, dairy, soybean, and grain. We will describe the cultures that developed and consume different fermented foods, and how microbes interact with their environments and with each other during food fermentations. Students in the course will develop an overview of the scientific principles and practices behind fermentation, and gain practical experience in sensory evaluation while increasing their enjoyment of foods.#
&FDSC 5360 | Distillation Principles and Practices&
#As an introduction to the science of distillation this course uses the study of pre-fermentation and fermentation biology, phase separation and vapor-liquid equilibrium, and sensory perception as a vehicle to explore the role of science and technology in the production and enjoyment of distilled beverages. Sensory samples and commercial samples of spirits will be used to illustrate the sensory properties and chemical components which define different types of distilled spirits, with the goal of understanding how different raw materials, processing, and aging impact these sensory properties.#
&FDSC 5400 | Wine and Grapes: Composition and Analysis&
#VIEN 5400 is a 2-credit course (1 credit lecture, 1 credit lab) with an emphasis on understanding the practice and theory behind analytical techniques routinely used in the wine and grape industries, and the statistical tools used to evaluate the effectiveness of both analyst and assay. The course is designed to provide practical skills complementary to other courses. VIEN 5400 is restricted to graduate students; undergraduates should enroll in VIEN 2400.#
&FDSC 5920 | Food Systems Microbiology&
#The focus of the course will be on food systems and how microbiology impacts the safety and quality of food products. The course will address issues of food product development, quality, safety, and the impact of the microbiome of foods on the individuals that consume it. Topics will include: establishing a product and environmental sampling plan; the impact of raw materials and processing of food shelf-life; food systems approaches to food safety and quality including the economics of raw material selection, processing and packaging; and root cause analysis. Real-world examples will be used to develop critical thinking skills.#
&FDSC 5960 | Food Safety Assurance&
#Food Science 3960 /5960 will focus on currently used food safety programs to control biological, chemical and physical hazards and assure the safety of foods. Topics include prerequisite programs such as Current Good Manufacturing Practices and Sanitation Standard Operating Procedures, Hazard Analysis Critical Control Point (HACCP), food safety management systems (SQF) and the application of current technologies in reducing foodborne illness. Upon successful completion of the course, the students will receive 1) General HACCP certification and 2) SQF implementation certification (through a collaboration with SQFI [Safe Quality Foods Institute]).#
&FDSC 6000 | Seminar in Food Science&
#Weekly seminar series on contemporary topics and issues in the field of food science and technology. Representatives from academia, industry, and government provide presentations on a wide variety of topics. Graduate students in the field of food science and technology may use the forum to present their required thesis research seminar.#
&FDSC 6040 | Chemistry and Functional Properties of Food Ingredients&
#This is a course with an emphasis on understanding the interactions of food ingredients and their role and functionality in the food product. This course is designed to enable students to utilize a step-by-step problem-solving approach to tackle challenges found in the food industry. Examples of these challenges will be presented as case studies obtained from literature and food industry. Additionally, graduate students in this course will: perform a case study on a given product; investigate the role of each ingredient and determine their interactions; suggest solutions to solve the problem; and present their results on case studies in class.#
&FDSC 6170 | Food Chemistry&
#Covers the chemistry of foods and food ingredients. Discusses the chemical and physical properties of water, proteins, lipids, carbohydrates, and other food components and additives in the context of their interactions and functional roles in foods.#
&FDSC 6220 | Foods, Dietary Supplements, and Health&
#Covers functional foods and nutraceuticals, bioactive compounds, antioxidants and dietary supplements, micronutrient fortification, and botanicals and herbs in disease prevention and health promotion. Emphasizes the mechanisms of action and scientific evidence of efficacy. Biomarkers, safety and efficacy testing, and regulations for functional foods and nutraceuticals are discussed.#
&FDSC 6250 | Food Processing: Conventional and Emerging Technologies&
#This course is focused on discussing principles and practices fundamental to the processing and storage of foods, using both conventional and emerging food processing technologies. Material covered includes: i) emerging food processing technologies, ii) processing principles for animal products and plant based foods, iii) cleaning and disinfection ion food processing; and iv) byproduct & waste handling and processing. The various concepts will be demonstrated with case studies from commercial processing.#
&FDSC 6260 | We Are What We Eat: Linking Food With Intestinal Functionality and Microbiome&
#Learn how you can impact your overall health by balancing your gut health; how your intestinal functionality, and microbiome are affected by your diet, and how to improve normal gut function. Learn how various chronic conditions and dietary deficiencies (as iron and zinc) may improve the gut digestive and absorptive surface (Brush Border Membrane) functionality and "health promoting" microbiome. In this course you will discuss the literature and learn that the microbiome and intestinal functionality play an important role in maintaining normal gut function, digesting certain nutrients, early life development, behavior and disorders like irritable bowel syndrome, mineral/vitamin deficiencies, obesity and diabetes.#
&FDSC 6340 | Cider Production Laboratory&
#Cider is a fermented beverage made from apples. Students in this course are immersed in cider production and analysis practices through activities in the teaching winery and by visiting commercial cideries. Readings and discussions support the hands-on learning focus in this laboratory course. Significant winery time between weekly class sessions is required.#
&FDSC 6360 | Distillation Principles and Practices Laboratory&
#As an introduction to the science of distillation this course uses the study of pre-fermentation and fermentation biology, phase separation and vapor-liquid equilibrium, and sensory perception as a vehicle to explore the role of science and technology in the production and enjoyment of distilled beverages. Sensory samples and commercial samples of spirits will be used to illustrate the sensory properties and chemical components which define different types of distilled spirits, with the goal of understanding how different raw materials, processing, and aging impact these sensory properties.#
&FDSC 6700 | Advanced Winemaking Theory and Practice II&
#Winemaking Theory and Practice II specifically addresses the non-fermentation aspects of wine production. This area includes fining, stabilization, adjustments, clarification, filtration, bottling, general sanitation, government regulations, oxidation, aging, contributions of oak, and production equipment and materials. Course builds on previous winemaking course material regarding wine production options for different wine styles, including chemical and sensory analysis and chemical and microbial stability.#
&FDSC 6710 | Advanced Winemaking Theory and Practice II Laboratory&
#In the laboratory of part II of the Winemaking Theory and Practice, students continue working with wines produced in the preceding fall term, focusing on aging options, stabilization, fining, and packaging. The laboratory also provides advanced training in wine chemical and sensory analysis. Students must develop their own winemaking finishing plan for several different young wines, and participate in self-guided wine production activities, thus previous experience in wine production is highly recommended.#
&FDSC 6950 | Current Readings in Food Science&
#Seminar series on current topics chosen by participating faculty members and students on a rotating basis. Format consists of weekly discussion groups with each participant presenting at least one oral report based on independent reading. Multiple sections focusing on different topics may be taught in any given semester. Topics include food microbiology and food safety, food chemistry, sensory evaluation, and food engineering and materials science. Interested students should contact the designated instructor(s) for each semester.#
&FDSC 6960 | Graduate Internship in Food Science&
#On-the-job learning experience under the supervision of professionals in a cooperating organization. A learning contract is written between the faculty supervisor and students, stating the conditions of the work assignment, supervision, and reporting. All 6960 internship courses must adhere to the CALS guidelines at www.cals.cornell.edu/cals/current/student-research/internship/index.cfm.#
&FDSC 6970 | Graduate Individual Study in Food Science&
#Independent study for graduate students.#
&FDSC 6980 | Graduate Teaching Experience&
#Designed to give graduate students teaching experience through involvement in planning and teaching courses under the supervision of field faculty members. The experience may include leading discussion sections; preparing, assisting in, or teaching lectures and laboratories; and tutoring.#
&FDSC 8900 | Master's Level Thesis Research&
#Thesis Research for MS students in the Field of Food Science & Technology.#
&FDSC 9900 | Doctoral-Level Thesis Research&
#Dissertation research for PhD students in the Field of Food Science & Technology.#


$FGSS | Feminist, Gender & Sexuality Studies$
&FGSS 1940 | A Global History of Love&
#By posing seemingly simple questions such as what is love and who has the right to love, this introductory-level lecture course surveys how love has been experienced and expressed from the pre-modern period to the present. Through case studies of familial and conjugal love in Africa, Asia, the US, Europe, and South and Latin America, the course will examine the debates about and enactment's of what constitutes the appropriate way to show love and affection in different cultures and historical contexts. Among the themes we will explore are questions of sexuality, marriage, kinship, and gender rights. A final unit will examine these themes through modern technologies such as the Internet, scientific advances in medicine, and a growing awareness that who and how we love is anything but simple or universal.#
&FGSS 2010 | Introduction to Feminist, Gender, and Sexuality Studies&
#Feminist, Gender, & Sexuality Studies is an interdisciplinary program focused on understanding the impact of gender and sexuality on the world around us and on the power hierarchies that structure it. This course provides an overview of key concepts, questions, and debates within feminist studies both locally and globally, focusing mainly on the experiences, historical conditions, and concerns of women as they are shaped by gender and sexuality. We will read a variety of texts--personal narratives, historical documents, and cultural criticism--across a range of disciplines, and will consider how larger structural systems of both privilege and oppression affect individuals' identities, experiences, and options. We will also examine forms of agency and action taken by women in the face of these larger systems.#
&FGSS 2260 | Japanese Pop Culture&
#Japanese pop culture—anime, manga, video games, music and more—has been a major phenomenon with massive worldwide popularity for the last three decades. In this course, we will explore a wide range of Japanese pop cultural forms, exploring the interactions between different media, Japanese pop culture as global pop culture, and a variety of modes of analyzing visual and audio materials. We will also see how pop cultural works themselves, in their content and form, engage with questions of gender, technology, fandom, nation, and the environment. No prior knowledge of Japanese language, culture, or history required. All readings and screenings will be available in English or with English subtitles.#
&FGSS 2290 | Introduction to Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and Transgender Studies&
#This course offers an introduction to central issues, debates, and theories that characterize the field of Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and Transgender (LGBT) Studies. Starting from the assumption that neither "sex" nor "sexuality" is a private experience or category, we will explore some of the ways that these powerfully public and political terms have circulated in social, legal, economic, and cultural spheres. We will also examine how these categories are situated in relation to other formative categories including race, ethnicity, religion, family, marriage, reproduction, the economy, and the state. Using a comparative and intersectional approach, we will read from various disciplines to assess the tools that LGBT studies offers for understanding power and culture in our contemporary world.#
&FGSS 2350 | Literature and Medicine&
#How does literary language depict the experience of physical suffering? Can a poem or a novel palliate pain, illness, even the possibility of death? From darkly comic narratives of black plague to the rise and fall of hysteria to depictions of the AIDS crisis, this course examines literature centered on medical practices from the early modern period through the twentieth century. Why have medical practices changed, and how do writers address their political, social, and ideological implications? Readings will include a broad range of genres, including poetry (Dickinson, Whitman, Keats), fiction (McEwan, Chekhov, Gilman, Kafka, Camus), theater (Kushner), nonfiction prose (Woolf, Freud), and critical theory (Foucault, Scarry, Canguilhem, Sontag).#
&FGSS 2468 | Medicine, Culture, and Society&
#Medicine has become the language and practice through which we address a broad range of both individual and societal complaints. Interest in this medicalization of life may be one of the reasons that medical anthropology is currently the fastest-growing subfield in anthropology. This course encourages students to examine concepts of disease, suffering, health, and well-being in their immediate experience and beyond. In the process, students will gain a working knowledge of ecological, critical, phenomenological, and applied approaches used by medical anthropologists. We will investigate what is involved in becoming a doctor, the sociality of medicines, controversies over new medical technologies, and the politics of medical knowledge. The universality of biomedicine, or hospital medicine, will not be taken for granted, but rather we will examine the plurality generated by the various political, economic, social, and ethical demands under which biomedicine has developed in different places and at different times. In addition, biomedical healing and expertise will be viewed in relation to other kinds of healing and expertise. Our readings will address medicine in North America as well as other parts of the world. In class, our discussions will return regularly to consider the broad diversity of kinds of medicine throughout the world, as well as the specific historical and local contexts of biomedicine.#
&FGSS 2555 | Sex and Sexuality in Islam&
#This course will introduce students to the study of sex and sexuality in the medieval and early modern Islamic World, ending at the dawn of the twentieth century; we will begin with the study of desire in pre-Islamic and early-Islamic poetry and end with the study of the impact of colonialism on the family, the home and morality across the Islamic world. Students will read (in English) from the Qur'an, the sayings of the Prophet Muhammad, obscene and chaste poetry, erotological works, medical treatises, moral condemnations of sex, legal case studies, erotic stories and travel literature. Students will also engage with modern scholarship on the history of sex and sexuality in the Islamic world. Major topics of study will include: the composition of the family across time and space, the intersection between slavery and sexuality, homosexuality and homoerotic desire in the premodern world, marriage and adultery, questions of consent and sexual violence in law and storytelling, and the discrepancies between law, morality and social practice.#
&FGSS 2575 | Tyranny and Dignity: Chinese Women from the Cultural Revolution to the White Paper Revolution&
#This course focuses on the human condition of Chinese women after 1949. In the name of the Women's liberation movement since the early 1900s, do Chinese women eventually hold up the half sky? From the cradle to the grave, what was most challenging in women's life? How did political, economic, and cultural forces frame women's professional careers and private life? No judgments nor imaginations. Using multi-media, such as Chinese independent documentary films, music, and photographs, students will discover the hidden stories behind the mainstream narratives. Workshops with film directors, pop music singers, and photographers offer students an unusual way of accessing all backstage field experiences.#
&FGSS 2652 | Ancient Greek Drama&
#This course introduces students to ancient Greek drama, with a particular focus on the genre of tragedy and its relation to the cultural, political, and performance context of Athens in the 5th century BC. Students will read plays by Aeschylus, Sophocles, and Euripides in English translation and explore how they address key themes such as gender, racialization, slavery, war, mourning, trauma, empathy, and justice. Students will also study how contemporary artists, writers, and communities have adapted and restaged Greek drama, transforming and animating these ancient scripts across various media (theater, film, literature, etc.) to speak to complex and urgent social issues today (e.g., state/institutional violence; sexual violence; racism and xenophobia; queer bodies and desires; mental health; disability and caregiving).#
&FGSS 3040 | Reproductive Justice&
#This course is organized around the central theme of reproductive justice. It interrogates the connections between reproductive politics and policy, engaged research, and public health. By approaching reproduction through the lens of justice, we as a class will engage in sustained reflection on the place of reproduction within health, healthcare, and activism. The course situates reproduction and reproductive health within historical trajectories of health activism and governance, including but not limited to abortion, assisted reproduction, and immigration.#
&FGSS 3210 | Gender and the Brain&
#Why are boys more likely than girls to be diagnosed with autism, and why are women more likely than men to be diagnosed with depression? Are there different "gay" and "straight" brains? And how does brain science interact with gender and sexuality in popular debate? Reading and discussing the original scientific papers and related critical texts, we will delve into the neuroscience of gender. In this course, we will delve into the neuroscience of gender difference. Reading the original scientific papers and related critical texts, we will ask whether we can find measurable physical differences in male and female brains, and what these differences might be. Do men and women solve spatial puzzles differently, as measured physiologically? Do nonhuman animals display sex-specific behaviors mediated by brain structure, and can we extrapolate these findings to human behavior? Why are boys three times more likely than girls to be diagnosed as autistic, and is there any connection between the predominantly male phenomenon of autism and other stereotypically male mental traits? Are there physical representations of sexual orientation in the brain, and how are these related to gender identity? And how are scientific studies represented and misrepresented in popular debate?#
&FGSS 3320 | Gender and Psychopathology&
#This course will examine the ways in which sex and gender impact the expression of severe psychopathology. We will try to understand these relationships using different levels of analysis. This will involve an exploration of biological, psychological, cognitive, and social factors associated with sex and gender as they influence the epidemiology, phenomenology, etiology, diagnosis, and course of illness in major forms of psychopathology: specifically, schizophrenia, major affective illness, anxiety disorders, eating disorders, and personality disorders. We will examine these topics through the frameworks of psychological science, feminism, and intersectionality, and attempt to integrate the offerings of each, to generate a nuanced understanding of mental illness.#
&FGSS 3334 | Black Body Politics: Histories, Theories, and Debates&
#The body has been crucially important to Black liberation politics. Not only has it been a site of contestation and control, but it has also served as a productive site of protest, alliance, and collective action, in ways both real and imagined. This course explores the historical debates and theories surrounding the body with a particular focus on how blackness informs bodily meanings and negotiations across the African diaspora. Weekly topics will allow students to consider the metaphorical and material dimensions of the body while also interrogating the very concept of embodiment, the ways in which individual bodies are constituted and reconstituted over time.#
&FGSS 3565 | Black Ecoliterature&
#Mainstream media would have us believe that driving a new Toyota Prius, recycling, and shopping "clean" at Whole Foods would make us all food environmentalists, right? Additionally, climate change and environmental degradation are often discussed as if they are phenomena that affect us all equally. Despite these dynamics, research in recent years tells us that while there might be some general ways that we experience our constantly changing physical environments—race, gender, and location very much affect how we experience "Nature." In this course we will use literature from across the African diaspora to investigate how looking at race, gender, and location produces very different ideas about environment, environmentalism, and "Nature" itself.#
&FGSS 3575 | Introduction to Black German Studies&
#During her time in Germany, the U.S. poet Audre Lorde (who described herself as "Black, lesbian, mother, warrior poet") sought out community and encouraged Black Germans to speak up and make themselves visible as Afro-Germans in a country that often ignored or invalidated their existences. This is one of many crucial moments in Black German history and Black German Studies. In this course will explore the histories, activism, literature, and scholarship that arise from Afro-German communities and have shaped the field of Black German Studies. We will engage with films, novels, poetry, short stories, graphic narratives, music videos, and scholarly essays. Considering the great variety of media and genres, we will spend class time not only developing a shared vocabulary to talk about each text, but we will also learn to apply differing methods of analysis in our class discussions and individual assignments.#
&FGSS 3588 | Creating Renaissance Man (and Woman)&
#This course is dedicated to studying important works of literature that address what it means, in the Renaissance, to strive for excellence as a man or as a woman, especially in the public sphere and in love.#
&FGSS 3977 | Body Politics in African Literature, Cinema, and New Media&
#This course examines how writers, filmmakers, and content creators from Africa engage with and revise public images of bodies—specifically pleasure, queerness, sex strikes, etc. Our inquiry also surveys theorists' commitment to highlighting forms of self-fashioning and agency/responsibility in addition to troubling problematic tropes of pathologization and excess. These topical explorations will be achieved through analyses of storytelling, digitality, the aestheticization of violence, and social change theories. Through contemporary films, digital platforms, novels, and essays, we will reflect on the precarious yet empowering nature of the body. Public speaking (class discussions, student presentations) and deep attention to analysis and writing (reaction papers, an abstract, an annotated bibliography, and a final paper) will help you refine your understanding of body politics.This course examines how writers, filmmakers, and content creators from Africa engage with and revise public images of bodies—specifically pleasure, queerness, sex strikes, etc. Our inquiry also surveys theorists' commitment to highlighting forms of self-fashioning and agency/responsibility in addition to troubling problematic tropes of pathologization and excess. These topical explorations will be achieved through analyses of storytelling, digitality, the aestheticization of violence, and social change theories. Through contemporary films, digital platforms, novels, and essays, we will reflect on the precarious yet empowering nature of the body. Public speaking (class discussions, student presentations) and deep attention to analysis and writing (reaction papers, an abstract, an annotated bibliography, and a final paper) will help you refine your understanding of body politics.#
&FGSS 3991 | Undergraduate Independent Study&
#Individual study program intended for juniors and seniors working on special topics with selected reading or research projects not covered in regularly scheduled courses. Students select a topic in consultation with a FGSS faculty member who has agreed to supervise the independent study.#
&FGSS 4000 | Senior Seminar in Feminist, Gender, and Sexuality Studies&
#This senior seminar constitutes the culmination of the FGSS major-it provides a unique opportunity to come together with all the other FGSS seniors to both put to use what has been learned and explore new aspects of feminist, gender, and sexuality studies. In this particular seminar, we will attempt to answer, in short, the question of what it means to be a feminist today, at this point in time and place. Pursuing the intersections of theory and practice, we will explore issues and concerns in the areas that you have identified as central to your concept and/or critique of feminism.#
&FGSS 4292 | Sexual Identities and the Media&
#This class moves beyond a simple consideration of how lesbians, gays, bisexuals, transgender and queer people have been represented in the mainstream media. We will explore both how dominant media forms have traditionally represented LGBTQ people, as well as how LGBTQ people have seized the opportunities offered by alternative media practices and technologies to articulate passions and politics that dominant media forms have little or no investment in.#
&FGSS 4380 | Imagining Utopia&
#Why is it easier to imagine the end of the world than the end of capitalism? At a time when reality appears dystopian, many are quick to dismiss utopian visions as naïve or irresponsible. In this seminar, we take on the critical and imaginative task of considering what utopias can tell us about our pasts, presents, and possible futures. We encounter two centuries of utopias in which communes have displaced the family, mutual aid has taken the place of capitalist individualism, and sexuality is no longer linked to property rights. While these speculative times and places seek to overcome capitalism, imperialism, racism, sexism, homophobia, transphobia, and the climate crisis, they remain haunted by these figures. Our treatment of utopias in theory and literature therefore includes a range of ambivalent affects and genres, from critical and ambiguous utopias to philosophical treatises and manifestos.#
&FGSS 4441 | Feminist Science Studies&
#No description available.#
&FGSS 4509 | Toni Morrison's Novels&
#In this course, we will engage in close and reflective critical readings of Toni Morrison's eleven novels. Morrison's writing style is characterized by highly distinctive strategies in the development of narrative and in the use of language. As we journey across her body of work as readers, we will examine a range of recurring themes, along with the "love trilogy" on which she focused her repertoire for several years. The course, through a comprehensive, chronological and focused look at Morrison's body of novels, will help students who entirely lack familiarity with it to gain a strong foundation for further research and study. By the end of the course, even students who already know Morrison's work will walk away with a deeper and more nuanced understanding of it. The course will help students to reinforce their skills in reading fiction, and more astute and exacting readers of the novel as a genre.#
&FGSS 4701 | Nightlife&
#This course explores nightlife as a temporality that fosters countercultural performances of the self and that serves as a site for the emergence of alternative kinship networks. Focusing on queer communities of color, course participants will be asked to interrogate the ways in which nightlife demonstrates the queer world-making potential that exists beyond the normative 9-5 capitalist model of production. Performances of the everyday, alongside films, texts, and performance art, will be analyzed through a performance studies methodological lens. Through close readings and sustained cultural analysis, students will acquire a critical understanding of the potentiality of spaces, places, and geographies codified as "after hours" in the development of subcultures, alternative sexualities, and emerging performance practices.#
&FGSS 4845 | Labor, Race, and Gender&
#The majority of existing union members are women and workers of color, and, since the mid-1980s, the majority of newly organized workers have been women of color, particularly black women and recent immigrants from Latin America. Yet, with the exception of just a handful of unions, the labor movement still has been slow to build on this support and enthusiasm. This course will focus on the challenges and possibilities created by the changing demographics of race and gender in the contemporary labor movement. Through a combination of readings, small group discussions, guest speakers, and library and online research, short essays and one longer research paper; the course will examine these issues from an historical, demographic, labor relations, and sociological perspective.#
&FGSS 4991 | Senior Honors Thesis II&
#To graduate with honors, FGSS majors must complete a senior thesis under the supervision of an FGSS faculty member and defend that thesis orally before an honors committee. To be eligible for honors, students must have at least a cumulative GPA of 3.3 in all course work and a 3.5 average in all courses applying to their FGSS major. Students interested in the honors program should consult the DUS late in the spring semester of their junior year or very early in the fall semester of their senior year.#
&FGSS 6363 | Queer Marxism&
#Are queer theory and Marxism truly irreconcilable? While queer studies emerged in part as a rejection of Marxism's totalizing approach and Marxists have criticized the queer emphasis on individuals, this seminar explores the potential of bringing the two fields together. We will consider how queer critiques of reproductive futurism, racial capitalism, and homonationalism can transform the legacy of Marxist theory and practice. At the same time, we will examine Marxist notions of totality, reification, and value to reenvision the scope of queer politics. After covering these key Marxist and queer theoretical concepts, the seminar will turn to transnational Marxist debates on gender and sexuality in Weimar Germany and the Soviet Union. We will conclude the seminar with a discussion of new scholarship in the emergent field of queer Marxism and a symposium with presentations by seminar participants.#
&FGSS 6440 | Feminist Science Studies&
#No description available.#
&FGSS 6845 | Labor, Race, and Gender&
#The majority of existing union members are women and workers of color, and, since the mid-1980s, the majority of newly organized workers have been women of color, particularly black women and recent immigrants from Latin America. Yet, with the exception of just a handful of unions, the labor movement still has been slow to build on this support and enthusiasm. This course will focus on the challenges and possibilities created by the changing demographics of race and gender in the contemporary labor movement. Through a combination of readings, small group discussions, guest speakers, and library and online research, short essays and one longer research paper; the course will examine these issues from an historical, demographic, labor relations, and sociological perspective.#
&FGSS 6880 | Proseminar in Feminist, Gender, and Sexuality Studies&
#This course offers an introduction to theoretical and practical aspects of the interdisciplinary field of Feminist, Gender and Sexuality Studies, providing graduate students with a range of disciplinary approaches and issues. We will explore both the disciplinary specifics of FGSS scholarship and the interdisciplinary breadth of gender/sexuality's reach as an analytic lens. While many of our graduate courses train students in highly specialized areas of feminist theory, this course aims to teach students how to find common intellectual ground from interdisciplinary perspectives without sacrificing the complexity of any disciplinary approach.#
&FGSS 6990 | Topics in Feminist, Gender, and Sexuality Studies&
#Independent reading course for graduate students on topics not covered in regularly scheduled courses. Students develop a course of readings in consultation with a faculty member in the field of Feminist, Gender, & Sexuality Studies who has agreed to supervise the course work.#


$FINN | Finnish$
&FINN 1122 | Elementary Finnish II&
#The Elementary Finnish II course is designed for students with some prior knowledge of Finnish. Students have an opportunity to practice listening, reading, writing and speaking in Finnish. Students learn to provide information about their opinions and feelings, their families, their immediate environment and their daily activities.#


$FREN | French$
&FREN 1220 | Elementary French&
#FREN 1210-1220 is a two-semester sequence. This is the second half of the sequence designed to provide a thorough grounding in French language and an introduction to intercultural competence. French is used in contextualized, meaningful, and critical thinking activities to provide practice in speaking, listening, reading, and writing. Development of analytical skills for grammar leads students toward greater autonomy as language learners. Students continue developing their writing skills by writing and editing compositions. Readings are varied and include literary texts and a short novel.#
&FREN 1230 | Continuing French&
#FREN 1230 is an all-skills course designed to improve oral communication, listening comprehension, and reading ability, to establish a groundwork for correct writing, and to provide a substantial grammar review. The approach in the course encourages the student to see the language within the context of its culture.#
&FREN 2080 | French for Business&
#This intermediate conversation and composition French course is designed for students interested in business fields such as Hospitality, Business Management, and Marketing, those looking for an internship or a job in French-speaking businesses or students interested in exploring the language and cultures of the French-speaking business world.  The course will focus on improving oral and written skills through the acquisition of specific vocabulary and the review of essential grammatical structures commonly used in business.  Students will use authentic written, visual and listening materials and engage in interactive activities relevant to the professional world and its intercultural dimension.#
&FREN 2090 | French Intermediate Composition and Conversation I&
#This intermediate-level course is designed for students who want to focus on their speaking and writing skills. Emphasis is placed on strengthening of grammar skills, expansion of vocabulary and discourse levels to increase communicative fluency and accuracy. The course also provides continued reading and listening practice as well as development of effective language learning strategies.#
&FREN 2095 | French Intermediate Composition and Conversation II&
#This advanced-intermediate course is highly recommended for students planning to study abroad as it aims to develop the writing and speaking skills needed to function in a French speaking university environment. A comprehensive review of fundamental and advanced grammatical structures is integrated with the study of selected texts (short stories, literary excerpts, poems, articles from French periodicals, videos) all chosen for thematic or cultural interest. Students write weekly papers, participate in class discussions of the topics at hand, and give at least one oral presentation in class.#
&FREN 2310 | Introduction to French and Francophone Literature and Culture&
#This course, designed to follow FREN 2095, introduces students to an array of literary and visual material from the French and Francophone world.  It aims to develop students' proficiency in critical writing and thinking, as well as presenting students with the vocabulary and tools of literary and visual analysis.  Each section of FREN 2310 will have a different focus-for example, colonialism and the other, or the importance of women and sexual minorities in French and Francophone history, performance in literature and film, or image and narrative-but all sections of FREN 2310 will emphasize through writing assignments and in-class discussions, the development of those linguistic and conceptual tools necessary for cultural and critical fluency.#
&FREN 2320 | Introduction to French and Francophone Film&
#This course designed to follow FREN 2095, introduces students to key cinematic techniques used in analysis of films and to major movements in the twentieth century French cinema.  Students will view a broad range of French and Francophone films spanning from 1945-2004 that includes canonical as well as contemporary works.  Topics studied include: the evolution of gender representation in French and Franophone films, the depiction of decolonization, and the films de banlieu genre.  The class will combine discussion, presentations, class scene analysis and readings from journalistic and film criticism texts, and will be conducted in French.#
&FREN 2550 | From Black Bile to Digital Depression:The History of Melancholy in Medicine, Philosophy, Art, Media&
#Throughout Western history, the nature of melancholy (aka "depression," its modern counterpart) has both inspired and baffled philosophers, doctors, artists, and writers. Compared to other ailments, affects, or conditions, this mysterious sadness has provoked a proliferation of concepts, theories, therapies, and artworks. This seminar offers a comparative survey of discourses on melancholy/depression and their related ideological, social, aesthetic, and scientific issues, from the Ancient Greeks onwards. We will focus on the ways in which melancholy/depression has been theorized in medicine, theology, psychoanalysis, psychiatry, ethnography, philosophy, and ecology; on how its shifting forms are related to issues of politics, society, culture, race, and gender; and on the many modes through which it has been file and expressed in literature, visual art, music, and today's social media.#
&FREN 3160 | Translating French: Theory and Practice&
#In this course, both seminar and workshop, students discuss writing about translation, mostly in French, and practice translating from French to English.  The theoretical texts studied represent a variety of perspectives and the French texts translated, a variety of literary and non-literary genres.  Students will investigate ways of addressing various types of difficulties they encounter in the process of translating across languages and cultures with the aim of developing their own principled approach to translating.#
&FREN 3210 | Modern French Literature and Culture&
#This course is designed to teach ways of reading and understanding works created from the Romantic period to the present day, in their cultural context. A range of texts from various genres is presented, and students refine their analytical skills and their understanding of various methodologies of reading. Texts by authors such as Balzac, Baudelaire, Cixous, Duras, Genet, Mallarmé, Michaux, Proust, Rimbaud, Sarraute, and Sartre.#
&FREN 3400 | French Identities: 21st Century Culture and Society in France&
#This course is conceived as a critical introduction to a cultural and political debate that appeared in the years of Mitterrand's France and reached its climax in the last decade.  It will focus on a French society deeply shaped by immigration and globalization.  In which way do the youth of the "banlieue" - mostly formed by postcolonial Blacks and Muslims - create their own culture with the French culture?  How have literature, essays, movies, documentary films, "national identity" carried on by governments reacted to these transformations?  Selecting literary texts (by Maryse Condé, Zahia Rahmani, Adb El Malik) and other cultural productions, the course will explore the new expressions of France as an "imagined community".#
&FREN 3540 | On Paying Attention&
#In the age of smartphones and social media, it's a cliché to say that the competing claims made on our attention only seem to be multiplying. But a cliché can be true. This course is an opportunity to enact certain practices of attentiveness and concentration, drawing largely from religious, literary, artistic, philosophical sources. We'll be trying to slow down our normal critical processes, to suspend the appropriative, pragmatic, and goal-oriented nature of much of the modern university. Through various exercises, from memorizing poems to immersing ourselves in our surroundings to reading about the ways in which our senses reach out to the world, we'll try to make ourselves more attentively available to that world.#
&FREN 3730 | Religious Violence in French and Francophone Literature&
#What makes religious violence so intractable, and what has fostered the continuity of this form of conflict over such a long span of time? What is the role of aesthetics in literary descriptions of such horrific violence? Violence as a spectacle raises the question of personal responsibility, making those who observe it complicit even if they do not participate in it. Texts to be considered will include Maalouf's Les Croisades vues par les arabes. Théodore Agrippa d'Aubigné's Les Tragiques, René Girard's La Violence et el sacré, Charlotte Delbo's Auschwitz et après, Shoshana Felman's and Dori Laub's work Testimony, Gillo Pontecorvo's La Bataille d'Algers, Franz Fanon's Les Damnés de la Terre, Assia Djebar's L'Amour, la fantasia.#
&FREN 3921 | Literary Theory on the Edge&
#This course examines a range of exciting and provocative 20th- and 21st- century theoretical paradigms for thinking about literature, language and culture. These approaches provide differing, though often overlapping, entryways into theoretical analysis, including structuralism and post-structuralism, translation studies, Black studies, Afro-Diasporic Studies, postcolonial and decolonial studies, performance studies, media theory and cinema/media studies, the digital humanities, psychoanalysis and trauma theory, gender studies and queer studies, studies of the Anthropocene/environmental studies, and animal studies. Occasional invited guests, lectures and class discussions will provide students with a facility for close textual analysis, a knowledge of major currents of thought in the humanities, and an appreciation for the uniqueness and complexity of language and media.#
&FREN 3975 | Body Politics in African Literature, Cinema, and New Media&
#This course examines how writers, filmmakers, and content creators from Africa engage with and revise public images of bodies—specifically pleasure, queerness, sex strikes, etc. Our inquiry also surveys theorists' commitment to highlighting forms of self-fashioning and agency/responsibility in addition to troubling problematic tropes of pathologization and excess. These topical explorations will be achieved through analyses of storytelling, digitality, the aestheticization of violence, and social change theories. Through contemporary films, digital platforms, novels, and essays, we will reflect on the precarious yet empowering nature of the body. Public speaking (class discussions, student presentations) and deep attention to analysis and writing (reaction papers, an abstract, an annotated bibliography, and a final paper) will help you refine your understanding of body politics.This course examines how writers, filmmakers, and content creators from Africa engage with and revise public images of bodies—specifically pleasure, queerness, sex strikes, etc. Our inquiry also surveys theorists' commitment to highlighting forms of self-fashioning and agency/responsibility in addition to troubling problematic tropes of pathologization and excess. These topical explorations will be achieved through analyses of storytelling, digitality, the aestheticization of violence, and social change theories. Through contemporary films, digital platforms, novels, and essays, we will reflect on the precarious yet empowering nature of the body. Public speaking (class discussions, student presentations) and deep attention to analysis and writing (reaction papers, an abstract, an annotated bibliography, and a final paper) will help you refine your understanding of body politics.#
&FREN 4200 | Special Topics in French Literature&
#Guided independent study of special topics.#
&FREN 4240 | Psychoanalysis and Politics&
#This seminar will explore some of the most important psychoanalytic approaches to politics and collective life. from Sigmund Freud's Mass Psychology and the Analysis of the Ego to works by Le Bon, Reich, Althusser, Fanon, Lacan, Safouan, Zizek and Dolar. Questions explored will include the relationship between mass and individual psychology; the role of unconscious identification (ideal ego, superego) in group formation, nationalism, xenophobia and racism; fantasy and politics; and the people considered as a subject and political actor. Events and contexts discussed will range from the French Revolution to the Nazi Reich to colonialization and contemporary authoritarianisms. Works of political theory by Rousseau, Kant, Marx, Arendt, Balibar and Ranciere will be put in dialogue with psychoanalytic readings.#
&FREN 4250 | Ecological Thinking: Philosophy, Ethics, and Politics Beyond the Human&
#This course studies philosophical, literary, and scientific conceptions of "nature" and the ethics and politics of human-nonhuman relations.  We will cover a wide array of texts and global issues-such as animal cruelty, indigenous ecological thought, climate justice, plant ecologies, and ecological sovereignty-while trying to trace a history of French and Francophone ecological thought, from the 16th century to today.  Our readings will address a number of related questions: what is our responsibility to nonhuman beings?  How must our conceptions of nature, humanity, ethics, and politics change to become more ecological?  And are these issues contemporary or have they been with us for centuries, even millennia?  Students will closely study and collectively discuss texts while undertaking assignments ranging from the analytic to the experimental.#
&FREN 4265 | One French Novel&
#A number of well-known French novels have been adapted, appropriated, and reimagined, giving them a life well beyond France and beyond the time in which they were produced. We will explore how one novel can serve various, sometimes contradictory, purposes in different times and cultures by examining the context in which it was written, the text itself, and the variations that have arisen over time.#
&FREN 4300 | Honors Work in French&
#Consult director of undergraduate studies for more information.#
&FREN 4334 | Caribbean Worlds: Landscape, Labor and Climate Imaginaries&
#The seminar will explore relations between the tangible effects of climate on urban, infrastructural, and ecological landscapes in the Caribbean and lived experiences of climate as mediated through literature, film, and other expressive forms. Topics will range from historical accounts of climate as 'catastrophe' – the effects of hurricanes, volcanoes, and earthquakes– to colonial histories of coerced labor, to climate as a more general horizon in the constitution of Caribbean worlds. The seminar draws on the work of anthropologist Anna Tsing, interpreting the industrialized-urbanized ecological territory in terms of "capitalist ruination" which, nonetheless, holds possibilities for other modes of environmentality, as the hazards effected by climate change fundamentally disrupt and transform the very urbanity constituted through colonial and later resource extractive appropriations.#
&FREN 4630 | Ghost Stories: Literature, Cinema, and TV Series&
#Taking the form of ghosts, revenants, and zombies, dead are regularly summoned up in literature, film, and TV series. Their eternal return and narrative power reflect the upheavals of our troubled times as either disquieting or mischievous, tragic, or comic characters. How can we explain this return of the repressed? How do they manifest themselves in contemporary French-language fiction? What do they tell us about ourselves, our hidden memories, our conceptions of the invisible, an our projections into the future? This seminar will scrutinize many novels, films and TV series that raise these questions by combining literary, psychological, and anthropological approaches. This will provide the opportunity of rethinking some key methodological notions such as "uncanny", "hauntology", and "spectral turn".#
&FREN 4825 | Literature and Science: Transfers in Poetics & Epistemology&
#Part epistemology and part experimental humanities, this seminar looks at improbable encounters between the divergent regimes of thought and knowledge expressed by "literature" and the "sciences." Our main concern is not the literary thematization of the scientific, nor is it an exploration of science fiction as a genre. Our reflexive focus is rather on the noetic and poetic transfers different modes of textuality could unfold, beyond their hiatus in terms of writing, apparatus, signification, and mental experience. Readings include scholars such as Foucault, Kuhn, Strabo, Haraway, or Hayles, and writers such as Homer, Rousseau, Shelley, or Borges. Several discrete disciplines, such as geometry, cognitive science, botany, primatology, or AI, could be analyzed. The seminar is also linked to the research activities of the Humanities Lab.#
&FREN 6300 | French Reading for Graduates&
#Designed for those with little or no background in French. Aims primarily to develop skill in reading French. Covers grammar basics, extensive vocabulary, and strategies for reading in a foreign language. Some flexibility in selecting texts according to fields of interest.#
&FREN 6334 | Caribbean Worlds: Landscape, Labor and Climate Imaginaries&
#The seminar will explore relations between the tangible effects of climate on urban, infrastructural, and ecological landscapes in the Caribbean and lived experiences of climate as mediated through literature, film, and other expressive forms. Topics will range from historical accounts of climate as 'catastrophe' – the effects of hurricanes, volcanoes, and earthquakes– to colonial histories of coerced labor, to climate as a more general  horizon in the constitution of Caribbean worlds. The seminar draws on the work of anthropologist Anna Tsing, interpreting the industrialized-urbanized ecological territory in terms of "capitalist ruination" which, nonetheless, holds possibilities for other modes of environmentality, as the hazards effected by climate change fundamentally disrupt and transform the very urbanity constituted through colonial and later resource extractive appropriations.#
&FREN 6400 | Special Topics in French Literature&
#Guided independent study for graduate students.#
&FREN 6825 | Literature and Science: Transfers in Poetics and Epistemology&
#Part epistemology and part experimental humanities, this seminar looks at improbable encounters between the divergent regimes of thought and knowledge expressed by "literature" and the "sciences." Our main concern is not the literary thematization of the scientific, nor is it an exploration of science fiction as a genre. Our reflexive focus is rather on the noetic and poetic transfers different modes of textuality could unfold, beyond their hiatus in terms of writing, apparatus, signification, and mental experience. Readings include scholars such as Foucault, Kuhn, Strabo, Haraway, or Hayles, and writers such as Homer, Rousseau, Shelley, or Borges. Several discrete disciplines, such as geometry, cognitive science, botany, primatology, or AI, could be analyzed. The seminar is also linked to the research activities of the Humanities Lab.#


$FSAD | Fiber Science & Apparel Design$
&FSAD 1140 | Principles of Design Computing&
#The course will cover foundational skills and best practices for design communication in terms of the underlying principles of computing technologies. This course will help students become versatile in utilizing various approaches and tools for tasks in Design and Environmental Analysis (DEA) and Fiber Science & Apparel Design (FSAD) programs. The first module will cover the foundations of 2D graphics and technical drawing. The second module will be an introduction to 3D modeling and rendering. Each module will start as one class with a focus on general principles and will be followed by the class dividing into two sections for applications specific to DEA and FSAD programs. The final module will include an introduction to Generative Artificial Intelligence techniques as a part of a collaborative final project where students will work in multidisciplinary teams to design, curate, and propose an exhibition (DEA) for a fashion collection (FSAD). Through lectures, class activities, homework and projects, the course will help students build confidence in digital design skills and be encouraged to explore further on their own.#
&FSAD 1350 | Fibers, Fabrics, and Finishes&
#This course introduces the properties and performance of textile materials and processes for FSAD majors and provides a general overview of the textile industry from a scientific perspective. Focus is on materials used in apparel and home furnishing markets. This course may also be used to fill a science requirement for non-FSAD majors in Human Ecology. Chemistry and mechanics of typical materials and processes used in the textile industry will be addressed with emphasis placed on the relationship between the materials and processes used and the final properties of the fabric.#
&FSAD 1360 | Fiber and Yarn Analysis Laboratory&
#This laboratory provides an opportunity for investigation of the physical and chemical structure and properties of fibers and yarns commonly used in apparel and home furnishing applications. Students completing this class will have a strong understanding of fiber and yarn structure, the differences between common fiber and yarn types and will know techniques for positive identification of textile fibers.#
&FSAD 1450 | Introduction to Fashion Design&
#This course covers the principles of garment assembly and flat-patternmaking for apparel design, as well as the use of mass production equipment and methods to analyze, develop, and assemble garments. Studio projects include an emphasis on innovative design and high-quality garment assembly techniques for upscale markets.#
&FSAD 2190 | Fashion, Aesthetics and Society&
#This course is an introduction to fashion, beauty and trends and their integral relationship throughout history. Students will learn and explore various aspects of contemporary fashion phenomena, such as fashion collaborations, media-effects on body image, the impact of new technologies on fashion and lifestyle trends, and other significant issues of society manifest in fashion of the 20th and 21st centuries.#
&FSAD 2640 | Fashion Draping&
#In this studio course we examine the process of creating a three-dimensional garment from the two-dimensional fabric. The principles and processes of draping, advanced flat-pattern making, and industrial construction methods using a variety of materials are investigated through project work. Assigned problems require students to make judgments regarding the design process, the nature of materials, body structure, function, and fashion.#
&FSAD 2660 | Activewear Design and Product Development&
#Project-based course in which students explore the relationship between technology and design, and the impact of production issues on manufactured activewear. Students learn computer-aided patternmaking, activewear construction methods, manufacturing technologies, communication of technical details, flats, specifications, and costing of garments. Designs are developed to various stages from conceptual work to full specification of the product and its production details, with a concentration on the iterative design process.#
&FSAD 3320 | Product Quality Assurance&
#This is a "hands on" class exploring the process of assuring and assessing sewn product quality at each step of the supply chain from fiber to consumer. Students will evaluate textiles and garments employing industry standard practices and explore expectations for product performance as well as the influence of fiber and fabric on tested properties.#
&FSAD 3330 | Retail Buying and Merchandising&
#This course builds on the knowledge around product development, consumer research, and pricing from FSAD2310: Fashion Product Management by focusing on the fashion product cycle at the buying, planning, and merchandising stages. Students will learn the steps of the buying process, how to interpret retail and consumer data to make buying decisions, and how to create buying, assortment, and merchandising plans for a season.#
&FSAD 3370 | Introduction to Knit Textile Structure and Design&
#This course covers the design and creation of weft knit fabrics with a focus on machine-knit fabric structures chosen for desired aesthetic and performance results. Students will learn hand flat machine knitting as well as the basic principles of knit programming. Students are required to develop design ideas, knit swatches and garment panels, and make verbal/visual presentations of their work at regular critiques.#
&FSAD 3650 | New Technologies for Fashion Design&
#The focus of this course is to create one-of-a kind and innovative fashion products by using 2D/3D software programs as well as methods (e.g., 3D printing, laser cutting & engraving). During the semester, experimental design samples will be prepared, and students will create full scale garments for their final projects. Readings and discussion topics will explore methods, creativity, and critical thinking.#
&FSAD 4000 | Directed Reading&
#For study that predominantly involves library research and independent reading by and individual student or a group of students in a field of FSAD not otherwise provided through course work in the department or elsewhere at the university.#
&FSAD 4010 | Empirical Research&
#For study that predominantly involves data collection and analysis, or laboratory or studio projects by an individual student or a group of students in a field of FSAD not otherwise provided through course work in the department or elsewhere at the university.#
&FSAD 4020 | Supervised Fieldwork&
#For study that involves both responsible participation in a community setting and reflection on that experience through discussion, reading, and writing by an individual student or a group of students in a field of FSAD not otherwise provided through course work in the department or elsewhere at the university.#
&FSAD 4030 | Teaching Apprenticeship&
#For study that includes teaching methods in the field and assisting faculty with instruction.#
&FSAD 4360 | Fiber Materials&
#This course covers the chemical structure, physical and thermal properties of commercially important synthetic and natural fibers. This course also emphasizes the structure-property relationship of fibers and their end-use. This course focus on chemistry throughout the fiber production and the recycle/upcycle path of textile fibers in the market. The functionalization of fibers, dyeing and finishing processes of textile fibers with experimental component are also included. This course provides understanding of suitable approaches for dyeing and finishing processes of textiles based on their chemistry and investigate more sustainable approaches/processes for the textile industry.#
&FSAD 4440 | Global Fashion Management&
#This course is an introduction to the global textile and apparel complex, particularly the importance of international trade, global sourcing, strategic management of global brands, and corporate social responsibility. There is a focus on multinational apparel firms with accompanying case study analysis.#
&FSAD 4444 | Fiber Science and Apparel Design Futures&
#In this course, students will work in cross-disciplinary teams to synthesize knowledge and skills from their prior courses into new ideas and products. Projects will be developed and led by students with faculty mentorship.  These projects should build on work from previous courses or projects and allow students to explore multiple aspects of design, performance, use, production, and marketing.#
&FSAD 4700 | Online Fashion Promotion and Presentation&
#Students are expected to discover their personal philosophy of fashion and to discover and adopt current presentation techniques. Students gain an understanding of presentation methods currently used in fashion design, forecasting, and editorial illustration. Skills covered include fashion illustration, image manipulation, and photographic image, layout, and presentation.#
&FSAD 4800 | Ethical Design: Engine of Positive Change&
#Design has the power to change how we view and interact with the world which can cause positive or negative impacts. Modern society faces various issues which are all closely related to the ethical aspects of design: humanitarian crises, labor exploitation, injustice in the workplace, loss of diversity, overconsumption, pollution, lack of transparency and pseudo-solutions to name a few. This course will discuss various ethical issues in design that impact individuals, community/society, economies, cultures, social dynamics, and the environment.#
&FSAD 4990 | Honors Thesis Research&
#The student prepares a thesis, based on independent research, including a research statement, background, approach, results (which could be a description of a creative work), and discussion. The student may also produce creative work. Students make an open presentation of work, either a seminar or an exhibition, and an oral defense with the committee. Interested students should obtain a FSAD Honors Program application form from the FSAD undergraduate office (T57 HEB) and submit the application to the department before the end of the fall semester of junior year. For more information students should contact the Director of Undergraduate Studies at fsad-dus@cornell.edu.#
&FSAD 6000 | Special Problems for Graduate Students&
#Independent advanced work by graduate students recommended by their chair and approved by the department chair and instructor.#
&FSAD 6200 | Physical Properties of Fiber - Forming Polymers and Fibers&
#This course covers physical properties of fiber-forming polymers and fibers. This course introduces requirements for fiber formation, and highlights the rubbery, glassy, and crystalline states of polymers and fibers. This course also emphasizes the structure-property relationship in fibrous polymers. This course discusses fiber structure, relationship between chemical structure and physical properties of fibers; thermal and mechanical properties of fibers, and fiber surface properties, and characterization methods. This course also discusses environmental issues, sustainability and the recycling/upcycling/circularity of textile fibers.#
&FSAD 6370 | Research Seminar in Apparel Design&
#This course for graduate students in apparel design offers a new topic every semester as supervised by a rotating team of professors.#
&FSAD 6800 | Ethical Design: Engine of Positive Change&
#Modern society faces various issues which are all closely related to the ethical aspects of design: humanitarian crises, labor exploitation, injustice in the workplace, loss of diversity, over-consumption, pollution, lack of transparency and pseudo-solutions to name a few. This course will discuss various ethical issues in design that impact individuals, community/society, economies, cultures, social dynamics, and the environment. Students will identify and analyze critical ethical problems and explore solutions through class activities.#
&FSAD 6860 | Mechanics of Fibrous Assemblies and their Composites&
#This class introduces mechanics of fibers, yarns and fabrics in a way that allows students to grasp the role of each constituent and their interaction in the overall response of fabrics under load. Types of fibrous composites will be discussed, and advantages and disadvantages of each type articulated to bring attention to their role as important structural materials. Mechanical models for fibrous composites will be introduced.#
&FSAD 8990 | Master's Thesis and Research&
#A course for Fiber Science or Apparel Design Graduate Students doing research related to completing their Master's degree.#
&FSAD 9990 | Doctoral Thesis and Research&
#Dissertation research for PhD candidates in Fiber Science or Apparel Design.#


$GDEV | Global Development$
&GDEV 1200 | FWS: Topics in Global Development&
#The department offers first-year writing seminars on a wide range of global development topics. Topics vary by section.#
&GDEV 2065 | Environment and Development&
#This course examines the interface between development and environment issues in a global and international context. The ways we organize our economy, our culture, our social interactions, and the environment to meet our development needs have a profound impact on our ability to sustain ourselves, our society, and the planet. In this course, you will learn the theoretical and material linkages between environment and development issues and processes, and the multiple dimensions of sustainability and their synergies and tradeoffs. By taking a broad view of the development trajectory and the associated landscape transformation, you will explore various barriers and sustainability challenges, and critically examine the social, environmental, economic, and institutional dimensions of these challenges and proposed solutions.#
&GDEV 2105 | Pre-Internship: Community-Engaged Learning Prep&
#In this course, students focus on preparing for their internship experience (and future development practice more generally) through the intentional discernment about the ways in which their internship contributes to the broader development arena; who is served through the work of their internship; what they seek to learn; how they will go about fulfilling these learning goals, including through the application of personal ethical principles and critical thinking skills, and the strategies they will employ to ensure for their own health and safety. Students will demonstrate understanding and application of key course takeaways through a personal video highlighting their internship plans and approach.#
&GDEV 2130 | Introduction to Social Science Research Methods&
#Introduction to social science research. The course reviews the general process through which social scientists derive credible answers to important questions about social change and social influences on individual behavior. It covers all steps in the research process, from the formulation of a research question to the final presentation of findings. The course is designed as a preparation for future work in social science research, but it is also intended for students who simply want to sharpen their capacity to evaluate the claims made by researchers. The course combines theory and application. A group research project is used to apply the concepts and ideas from the textbook and lectures.#
&GDEV 2201 | Society and Natural Resources&
#The actions of people are crucial to environmental well-being. This course addresses the interrelationships between social phenomena and the natural (i.e., biophysical) environment. It is intended to (1) increase student awareness of these interconnections in their everyday lives; (2) introduce students to a variety of social science perspectives, including sociology, economics, psychology, and political science, that help us make sense of these connections; (3) identify the contributions of each of these perspectives to our understanding of environmental problems; and (4) discuss how natural resource management and environmental policy reflect these perspectives.#
&GDEV 2210 | Designing and Facilitating Learning for Development&
#In Designing and Facilitating Learning for Development, we see commonalities across a variety of venues and settings where people meet together to learn, deliberate, and act. From professional development to social change and town hall to union hall, adult and community learning is everywhere. Yet, for many, the design and facilitation of meaningful learning experiences can be as mysterious as an unopened black box. How does one go about creating inclusive educational and participative experiences in our increasingly interconnected contexts? In this course we open the box and unpack the processes of crafting and conducting collaborative learning experiences. In developing our abilities as ethical leaders of learning and action we serve the growth of others even as we deepen our practice.#
&GDEV 2300 | Food Systems and Sustainable Development&
#This course introduces students to the fundamentals of food systems in the context of sustainable development. The course investigates how we ended up with the current food system and the key components of food systems, the key drivers shaping food supply and demand, as well as health, environmental and equity outcomes. Examination of our current system is supplemented with studies on the future of food systems and sustainable transitions. The sustainability performance of food systems is examined in relation to land use, climate change, nutrient cycles, biodiversity and water use. The course provides an overview of work being done to improve sustainability through novel technology like alternative proteins, circularity, robots and AI from production to consumption.#
&GDEV 2410 | The Art of Teaching&
#This exploratory course is designed for students of all backgrounds and interests who have a desire to learn more about education and teaching. Teaching takes place in a variety of contexts from the family to the workplace, and this course endeavors to examine the elements of teaching that transcend the typical school-teaching environment. Designed to guide students in reflecting upon their experiences to help them better understand the decisions they make as teachers. Students have the opportunity to pursue their own interests through a teaching fieldwork assignment. Possible field experiences range from large group to tutorial situations, from preschool to adult education, from traditional school subject matters to recreational and occupational areas, and from school-based to nonformal situations. The course work and readings are designed to build on these experiences throughout the semester and provide concepts and skills to apply in the field.#
&GDEV 2710 | US Education System: Courts, Data, Law and Politics&
#This course aims to explore and answer a single question about America's promise-of success if you work hard and do well in school: Why do we have such substantial and long-standing inequality in the U.S.? In answering this central question, we will investigate the goals, roles, and outcomes of formal educational institutions in American society and the legal and policy environment in which they operate. Specifically, we will review historical state and federal policy, trace the $700 million spent, and interrogate the sociological functions of public and private K12 schools, including the successes, failures, and enigmas of school organization and policy at the local, state, and national level.#
&GDEV 2940 | Preparing for Food Systems and Agriculture Engaged Experiences&
#The Lund Fellows Program and Community Food Systems minor both offer students the opportunity for an engaged learning experience in agriculture and food systems. This course is designed to help students prepare for their engaged experiences with non-Cornell partner organizations. This seven-week course will maximize student engaged learning by utilizing the following learning topics: (1) understand the community and geographic area of your host organization; (2) develop personal and professional goals (3) explore critical reflection and how it can be applied to engaged experiences; (4) review relevant health and safety topics; (5) gain a deeper understating of agriculture and food systems through readings, other media and discussion. The course aims to build a sense of community through peer learning among the students who will be sharing similar summer experiences as well as ensure all internship and practicum logistics are completed.#
&GDEV 3020 | Political Ecologies of Health&
#This course investigates the relationships between political economy, the environment, and health to understand how disease and the desire for health transform social and ecological systems and how these systems impact human health. Using contemporary case studies from the United States and the Global South, we will critically analyze how class, race, and gender affect specific populations' health differently from others. We will move across scales from ecosystems and global development institutions to farms and cities to homes, offices, and bodies. We will also explore the roles capitalism, economic inequality, and environmental and social justice play in creating diverse health outcomes. Topics include infectious diseases; food, famine, and obesity; disasters and disease outbreaks; and environmental toxins including nuclear and chemical contamination.#
&GDEV 3100 | Foundations in Leadership: Skills for Personal and Professional Effectiveness&
#This course frames leadership as a particular way of approaching life, one that is essential to both personal fulfillment and career effectiveness. The course begins with the inner work of a leader's personal development and then explores how leaders work through others to enhance their influence.#
&GDEV 3142 | Reflecting on the Intersections of Education and Prison Systems&
#The "school-to-prison track" refers to policies and practices that facilitate the transfer of students out of the school system and into the prison system (including juvenile detention, county jail, immigration detention centers, or adult prison). This course takes a critical analytical look at the intersections of the prisons and schooling, emphasizing pedagogy, history and policy.#
&GDEV 3170 | Land Systems and Sustainability&
#This course delves into the critical role of land systems in addressing global sustainability crises. Recognizing the profound impact of land use on specific areas such as deforestation, urban sprawl, and agricultural practices, it is grounded in the concept of transformative change – defined as a comprehensive, system-wide reorganization of land systems. This reorganization includes shifts in paradigms, goals, and values related to land use. Students will examine case studies on issues such as land degradation and biodiversity loss to explore the multi-dimensional nature of land systems changes, emphasizing the need for actions that integrate local and global objectives. Through multiple writing exercises and discussions, we will re-imagine land use strategies to better organize our communities, institutions, and societies for sustainable outcomes amidst future uncertainties.#
&GDEV 3390 | Modeling People and the Environment&
#This course will provide an introduction to the process of building and using models of environmental systems using a systems dynamics (stock & flow) modeling platform called STELLA. Key concepts include causal modeling and the representation of systems as a set of processes, basic numerical methods, model development in STELLA, and analytical approaches to make inferences from model results. No prior coding experience is necessary, but students should expect to make significant use of algebra and basic statistics.#
&GDEV 3502 | Dev in Action: Spring Break Faculty-Led Study Trip&
#This course is the shell course for the spring courses that includes a faculty-led Spring Break practicum within the Global Development department. In these courses, students spend 10 class sessions gaining familiarity with a particular global development challenge (i.e., hunger & sustainable food production, inequality across the life course, environmental challenges & solutions, etc.) and a particular geographic context through readings, lectures, and in-class discussions. The course continues during an intensive Spring-break field study trip, and concludes with post-fieldwork analysis, reflection, and follow-up during the last 5 weeks of the semester.#
&GDEV 3510 | Engaged Learning through Extension, Outreach, and Instruction&
#Course is designed to explore strategies and instruction across three aspects of adult education: the Cooperative Extension Service as a structured delivery vehicle, outreach in more informal and non-traditional formats, and college instruction as a formal structure to deliver technical expertise. The intent is to develop a program to meet our target audience, then implement a plan that successfully meets the needs and expectations of instructor and participants alike.#
&GDEV 3700 | Comparative Social Inequalities&
#This course offers a sociological understanding of social inequality and the social construction of difference. Designed from the perspective of comparative historical analysis, we will examine the ways in which class, gender, race/ethnicity, religion, and sexuality differences work across place and time within a shared set of global dynamics. The course will pay special attention to how difference is constructed, institutionalized, and experienced. Thus, the course will not only address inequality based on economic and labor relations, but also emphasize complicated notions of difference and identity to offer an analysis that links inequality to power and forms of rule.#
&GDEV 3740 | Qualitative Research Methods&
#This class provides students with an introduction to qualitative research methods. While we will center our attention on questions, problems, and issues related to the field of global development, the class will also be relevant for students from other fields. In class lectures, discussions, and assignments, we will learn about, draw from, and interweave frameworks and tools from a wide variety of fields. In doing so we will explore the challenges and benefits of both "multidisciplinary" and "transdisciplinary" research. Questions of ethics, responsibility, and relationality will be taken up throughout the class, including our obligation to reject extractive "colonial" methods and ways of knowing. On this theme, we will explore theorists and practitioners of publicly engaged, participatory, feminist, indigenous, emancipatory, and action-oriented research.#
&GDEV 4011 | Special Methods of Instruction in Agricultural Science Education&
#Students complete learning and skills development about special methods for teaching agricultural science education. Such learning and skill development may include metal fabrication, small engine physics, and/or special laboratory instruction related to agricultural sciences. Students reflect upon that learning and skill development and then create units of instruction employing special methods used to teach secondary and/or post-secondary students about agricultural knowledge, skills, and processes.#
&GDEV 4045 | Data and Development&
#Development is inherently a multidisciplinary and applied field, one that requires academics, practitioners, and policymakers to consider and consult a wide range of information, data, perspectives, and questions. But how do policymakers use data to make informed decisions? How do practitioners use data to inform program development and practice? What sources and types of data do they use? What is the role of data in grant writing, assessment and evaluation, and in communicating policy issues to the public? What questions can (and can't) data help answer? Students in this class will learn about the role of data in community development practice, programming, and policy, and connections to asset- and needs-based assessments and frameworks.#
&GDEV 4050 | Invention and Technology Commercialization: IP Mgmt for Scientists, Engineers, and Entrepreneurs&
#Covers statutory protection (copyright, trademarks, patents, plant variety protection), contracts (from material transfer to licensing), management of IP (e.g., freedom-to-operate, valuation, genetic resources, trade, and marketing), and negotiation. Emphasizes technology transfer and international aspects. The course is particularly relevant to students interested in science management, technology transfer, international agriculture, and business.#
&GDEV 4051 | Exploring Strategies for Teaching and Learning&
#EDUC 4050 builds off of the broad nature of EDUC 2410. This course incorporates extensive field work in teaching, lesson planning, and evaluation based upon current theories in instruction at the collegiate level. The course is intended to integrate theory and practice associated with learning and teaching in college classroom settings and includes a minimum of 40 hours of supervised fieldwork in specific college classes.#
&GDEV 4140 | Global Cropping Systems and Sustainable Development&
#With accelerating demands for food, feed, and fiber along with increasing recognition of the importance of agricultural systems to ecosystem services and rural livelihoods, the requirements of agricultural systems are simultaneously intensifying and diversifying. This course introduces foundational concepts that explain the distribution, productivity, and ecological impacts of the world's major cropping systems from an interdisciplinary perspective, including soils, climate and water, markets, policies, and institutions. Through systems thinking and process-based agronomy, an emphasis is placed on assessing solutions for resolving core challenges to the sustainable development goals in the context of global change. Students gain insights into sustainable intensification technologies as well as the social process that support innovation. Evidence synthesis through a geographically-anchored case study and active participation in class discussions are required.#
&GDEV 4200 | Adult Language Learners and Marginalization: Applied Teaching Methods for Empowerment&
#When educators teach English to speakers of other languages, what assumptions do they often bring, about learners' goals, abilities, and backgrounds, and about the language-learning process? Which versions of English are often valued more highly in TESOL programs and materials? How can we create opportunities for English-language learning, while also recognizing the knowledge that learners already hold? Through reflections on readings, simulations, and weekly fieldwork, students will deepen their understanding of what it means to teach English to non-native speakers. Students will analyze and apply TESOL methodologies and receive feedback on their lesson planning and delivery in order to strengthen their teaching practice. Participants will learn from each other's situated experiences and increase their awareness of issues involved in global migrations and language learning.#
&GDEV 4223 | City as Community Learning Ecosystem&
#Running shoes are not required, yet we are in training for a marathon. In this course we're enhancing our knowledgebase, toolbox, mindset and resilience as we take up a contest unprecedented in human history— inclusive and just sustainability. Part race against the clock, part design challenge and part performance test, Team Humanity needs all of us to be informed, prepared, and in the game. Having teammates to train with nudges us to keep going as we learn with and from partners, communities and action leaders in this grand challenge. We examine five major concepts and explore their mutual generativity as we look for leverage points of system change: just sustainability; lifelong learning; place; learning ecosystems and social competencies for collective leadership and learning.#
&GDEV 4295 | Data Science Workshop with R&
#This course introduces students to the applied aspects of R programming, a powerful tool for data analysis and statistical modeling widely utilized across various scientific and research disciplines. R's comprehensive environment supports everything from data manipulation to complex statistical analyses and graphics, making it an ideal choice for data-driven research. Students will engage in a hands-on exploration of data import and management, mastering basic and advanced R functions, and utilizing loops for repetitive tasks. They will also learn to create compelling visualizations using R's graphing tools, which are crucial for interpreting and presenting data effectively.#
&GDEV 4770 | Seminar on Issues in African Development&
#Examines a broad range of critical concerns in contemporary Africa including food production, human resource development, migration, urbanization, environmental resource management, economic growth, and policy guidance. The weekly presentations are made by invited specialists. Students write weekly memos about the talks.#
&GDEV 4961 | Perspectives in Global Development&
#A variety of speakers present seminars on international development topics relating to sustainable development throughout the world. Students attend each seminar and submit a five-page essay at the end of the semester reflecting on the speakers' presentations and analyzing connections between topics.#
&GDEV 4970 | Independent Study in Global Development&
#Informal study may include a reading course, research experience, or public service experience.#
&GDEV 4980 | Teaching Experience in Global Development&
#Designed to give an undergraduate student practical teaching experience and deepened subject matter knowledge through working with a Development Sociology faculty member in planning and teaching a course. An enrolled student will regularly discuss teaching topics with the supervising faculty member; topics such as course objectives, subject matter, teaching techniques, and assessment strategies. The specific responsibilities will be negotiated between the faculty member and student, but, as appropriate for the particular course, may include researching course-related topics, preparing course materials, leading discussions, commenting on assignments, writing exam questions, assisting with grading, gathering student feedback, and tutoring.#
&GDEV 4990 | Independent Research in Global Development&
#Permits outstanding students to conduct laboratory or field research in global development under appropriate faculty supervision. The research should be scientific: systematic, controlled, empirical. Research goals should include description, prediction, explanation, or policy orientation and should generate new knowledge.#
&GDEV 5045 | Data and Development&
#Development is inherently a multidisciplinary and applied field, one that requires academics, practitioners, and policymakers to consider and consult a wide range of information, data, perspectives, and questions. But how do policymakers use data to make informed decisions? How do practitioners use data to inform program development and practice? What sources and types of data do they use? What is the role of data in grant writing, assessment and evaluation, and in communicating policy issues to the public? What questions can (and can't) data help answer? Students in this class will learn about the role of data in community development practice, programming, and policy, and connections to asset- and needs-based assessments and frameworks.#
&GDEV 5050 | Invention and Technology Commercialization: IP Mgmt for Scientists, Engineers, and Entrepreneurs&
#Covers statutory protection (copyright, trademarks, patents, plant variety protection), contracts (from material transfer to licensing), management of IP (e.g., freedom-to-operate, valuation, genetic resources, trade, and marketing), and negotiation. Emphasizes technology transfer and international aspects. The course is particularly relevant to students interested in science management, technology transfer, international agriculture, and business.#
&GDEV 5130 | Introduction to Social Science Research Methods&
#Introduction to social science research. The course reviews the general process through which social scientists derive credible answers to important questions about social change and social influences on individual behavior. It covers all steps in the research process, from the formulation of a research question to the final presentation of findings. The course is designed as a preparation for future work in social science research, but it is also intended for students who simply want to sharpen their capacity to evaluate the claims made by researchers. The course combines theory and application. A group research project is used to apply the concepts and ideas from the textbook and lectures.#
&GDEV 5170 | Land Systems and Sustainability&
#This course delves into the critical role of land systems in addressing global sustainability crises. Recognizing the profound impact of land use on specific areas such as deforestation, urban sprawl, and agricultural practices, it is grounded in the concept of transformative change – defined as a comprehensive, system-wide reorganization of land systems. This reorganization includes shifts in paradigms, goals, and values related to land use. Students will examine case studies on issues such as land degradation and biodiversity loss to explore the multi-dimensional nature of land systems changes, emphasizing the need for actions that integrate local and global objectives. Through multiple writing exercises and discussions, we will re-imagine land use strategies to better organize our communities, institutions, and societies for sustainable outcomes amidst future uncertainties.#
&GDEV 5223 | City as Community Learning Ecosystem&
#Running shoes are not required, yet we are in training for a marathon. In this course we're enhancing our knowledgebase, toolbox, mindset and resilience as we take up a contest unprecedented in human history— inclusive and just sustainability. Part race against the clock, part design challenge and part performance test, Team Humanity needs all of us to be informed, prepared, and in the game. Having teammates to train with nudges us to keep going as we learn with and from partners, communities and action leaders in this grand challenge. We examine five major concepts and explore their mutual generativity as we look for leverage points of system change: just sustainability; lifelong learning; place; learning ecosystems and social competencies for collective leadership and learning.#
&GDEV 5295 | Data Science Workshop with R&
#This course introduces students to the applied aspects of R programming, a powerful tool for data analysis and statistical modeling widely utilized across various scientific and research disciplines. R's comprehensive environment supports everything from data manipulation to complex statistical analyses and graphics, making it an ideal choice for data-driven research. Students will engage in a hands-on exploration of data import and management, mastering basic and advanced R functions, and utilizing loops for repetitive tasks. They will also learn to create compelling visualizations using R's graphing tools, which are crucial for interpreting and presenting data effectively.#
&GDEV 5510 | Engaged Learning Through Extension, Outreach, and Instruction&
#Course is designed to explore strategies and instruction across three aspects of adult education: the Cooperative Extension Service as a structured delivery vehicle, outreach in more informal and non-traditional formats, and college instruction as a formal structure to deliver technical expertise. The intent is to develop a program to meet our target audience, then implement a plan that successfully meets the needs and expectations of instructor and participants alike. The graduate level option will incorporate workshop, outreach, and instructional presentations developed from the grad student's area of expertise. A unit plan of instruction will also be developed.#
&GDEV 5710 | US Education System: Courts, Data, Law and Politics&
#This course aims to explore and answer a single question about America's promise-of success if you work hard and do well in school: Why do we have such substantial and long-standing inequality in the U.S.? In answering this central question, we will investigate the goals, roles, and outcomes of formal educational institutions in American society and the legal and policy environment in which they operate. Specifically, we will review historical state and federal policy, trace the $700 million spent, and interrogate the sociological functions of public and private K12 schools, including the successes, failures, and enigmas of school organization and policy at the local, state, and national level.#
&GDEV 5740 | Qualitative Research Methods&
#This class provides students with an introduction to qualitative research methods. While we will center our attention on questions, problems, and issues related to the field of global development, the class will also be relevant for students from other fields. In class lectures, discussions, and assignments, we will learn about, draw from, and interweave frameworks and tools from a wide variety of fields. In doing so we will explore the challenges and benefits of both "multidisciplinary" and "transdisciplinary" research. Questions of ethics, responsibility, and relationality will be taken up throughout the class, including our obligation to reject extractive "colonial" methods and ways of knowing. On this theme, we will explore theorists and practitioners of publicly engaged, participatory, feminist, indigenous, emancipatory, and action-oriented research.#
&GDEV 5970 | Independent Study in Global Development (MPS Students)&
#Allows M.P.S. students the opportunity to investigate special interests that are not treated in regularly scheduled courses. The student develops a plan of study to pursue under the direction of a faculty member.#
&GDEV 6060 | Sociological Theories of Development&
#With the transformation of former "colonies" into "developing countries," the notion of "development" emerged as a key conceptual framework for conceptualizing global hierarchies in wealth and power. Sustained by an apparatus of national and international agencies, and university programs in development studies, the 'development industry' generated a vast body of literature seeking to account for or promote social, economic, and political change. This course aims to familiarize students with some of the key theoretical approaches and debates in the field of development. Throughout the course, the concept of development itself is questioned and critiqued both theoretically and in terms of the challenges posed by development practice.#
&GDEV 6070 | Social Demography&
#The objective of this course is to provide a conceptual overview and technical "tool-kit" for studying population issues and public policies. What is a demographic perspective?  And how can it be applied usefully to important domestic and international policy issues of the day (e.g., housing segregation, health and retirement, labor mobility and immigration, and above- and below-replacement fertility, school projections, etc.). The course will introduce students to various demographic data sources (e.g., decennial census and periodic fertility surveys), conventional measures (e.g., fertility rates and measures of poverty/inequality), and conventional demographic techniques (e.g., life tables, rate standardization, and population forecasting) used in social demography.  For the most part, the course places the emphasis on the appropriate application of demographic tools and on scientifically-sound interpretations.#
&GDEV 6150 | Qualitative Research Methods&
#This seminar introduces students to a number of qualitative research methods in the social sciences. Discusses field observation, archival research, in-depth individual interviews, and focus group interviews. Assesses the strengths and weaknesses of various strategies of field research and consider a range of practical matters such as choice of research site (and sample where appropriate). Considers choice of research questions and issues of feasibility in research plans. Ethical considerations are highlighted. Students produce a full-length research proposal of their own by the course's end.#
&GDEV 6770 | Seminar on Issues in African Development&
#Examines a broad range of critical concerns in contemporary Africa including food production, human resource development, migration, urbanization, environmental resource management, economic growth, and policy guidance. The weekly presentations are made by invited specialists. Students write weekly memos about the talks. Graduate students (CRP 6770/GDEV 6770) facilitate one seminar question period.#
&GDEV 6960 | Perspectives in Global Development&
#A variety of speakers present seminars on international development topics relating to sustainable development throughout the world. Students attend each seminar and submit a five-page essay at the end of the semester reflecting on the speakers' presentations and analyzing connections between topics.#
&GDEV 6970 | Global Development MPS Seminar&
#A seminar for M.P.S. - Global Development students to discuss important issues in their field and to prepare themselves to write M.P.S. project papers. Specific content varies.#
&GDEV 6980 | Teaching Experiences for MPS in Global Development&
#This course enables MPS students to get valuable teaching experience in any one of the GDEV courses for credit.#
&GDEV 7201 | Ph.D. Research Design&
#This course provides a comprehensive review of the research and writing process to help Ph.D. students develop a strategy for writing a research proposal and journal article. The course provides a comprehensive review of the research design process and will result in each student developing his/her dissertation proposal. The course focuses on articulating research objectives, managing the research process, ethics, funding and professional development as a scholar. The course also explores how to write journal articles (journal selection, review process) and how to position your work in your academic field.#
&GDEV 7900 | Graduate-Level Thesis Research&
#Thesis research for Ph.D. students only before "A" exam has been passed.#
&GDEV 7910 | Teaching Experience&
#Participation in the ongoing teaching program of the department.#
&GDEV 7970 | Development Studies Professional Development Seminar&
#This course will serve as a collaborative space where PhD students can learn and share about issues of course-taking selection, grant sources and writing strategies, preparation of CVs and cover letters, meet and interact with Field Faculty, engage in practice conference- and job-talks, and other useful professionalization practices for new and more experienced PhD students. Guest speakers will be engaged and current students and alumni will share useful and strategic practices.#
&GDEV 8720 | Graduate Level Ind Study in Development Studies&
#Limited to master's and doctoral degree candidates with permission of the graduate field member concerned.#
&GDEV 8900 | Master's Level Thesis Research&
#Thesis research for master's students.#
&GDEV 9900 | Doctoral-Level Thesis Research&
#Thesis research for Ph.D. candidates after "A" exam has been passed.#


$GERST | German Studies$
&GERST 1121 | FWS: Writing Berlin&
#Berlin is a city that reinvents itself by rewriting itself. In this writing seminar, we'll study a variety of literary, visual, and sonic texts to create a mythical map of the city from its emergence as modern metropolis in the 1920s, reduction to rubble in World War II, refuge for the disaffected in the 1980s, and rebirth in the 21st century. As we make our way through the linguistic, visual, and aural landscape of its ever-changing topography, we'll create our own stories of a mythical Berlin in dialogue with texts written by the displaced persons who breached its walls and navigated its illicit economies. We'll also become more critical readers and viewers, as well as better writers.#
&GERST 1125 | FWS: Media Studies&
#What is a medium? How do new media relate to old media? What differentiates information contents from medial containers, aesthetic forms, and technical formats? To address such questions, media studies brings together multi-disciplinary expertise about culture and technology across the humanities and sciences. Studying media requires expanding our sense of what counts as a medium, from familiar mass media, such as radio, cinema, newspapers, and television, to individual mediums designed for information, entertainment, or communication—and beyond. In this seminar, students will be reading and writing (in English) about classic examples of media, including books, libraries, paintings, computers, and algorithms, using materials drawn primarily but not exclusively from the rich, vibrant, and dynamic tradition of German media studies.#
&GERST 1170 | FWS: Marx, Nietzsche, Freud&
#A basic understanding of Marx, Nietzsche, and Freud is a prerequisite for participating in critical debates in the humanities and social sciences. Our seminar will explore key terms in the revolutionary models of critical analysis these thinkers pioneered: historical materialism, post-metaphysical philosophy, and psychoanalysis.  This will mean articulating points of contrast as well as convergence.  Discussions and writing exercises will focus on texts that created the discursive framework for critiquing society and culture today.  Our method will proceed from the premise that critical reading, thinking, and writing are inseparable moments in the same operation of critique.  The question that guides that method will be: Do alternative ways of thinking exist in opposition to the ones we view as natural, inevitable, or universal?#
&GERST 1210 | Exploring German Contexts I&
#Students develop basic abilities in listening, reading, writing, and speaking German in meaningful contexts through interaction in small group activities. Course materials including videos, short articles, and songs provide students with varied perspectives on German language, culture, and society.#
&GERST 1220 | Exploring German Contexts II&
#Students build on their basic knowledge of German by engaging in intense and more sustained interaction in the language. Students learn more advanced language structures allowing them to express more complex ideas in German. Discussions, videos, and group activities address topics of relevance to the contemporary German-speaking world.#
&GERST 1230 | Expanding the German Dossier&
#Students continue to develop their language skills by discussing a variety of cultural topics and themes in the German-speaking world. The focus of the course is on expanding vocabulary, reviewing major grammar topics, developing effective reading strategies, improving listening comprehension, and working on writing skills. Work in small groups increases each student's opportunity to speak in German and provides for greater feedback and individual help.#
&GERST 2000 | Germany: Intercultural Context&
#Students examine important aspects of present-day German culture while expanding and strengthening their reading, writing, and speaking skills in German. Materials for each topic are selected from a variety of sources (fiction, newspapers, magazines, and the Internet). Units address a variety of topics including studying at a German university, modern literature, Germany online, and Germany at the turn of the century. Oral and written work and individual and group presentations emphasize accurate and idiomatic expression in German. Successful completion of the course enables students to continue with more advanced courses in language, literature, and culture.#
&GERST 2060 | German in Business Culture&
#Learn German and understand German business culture at the same time. This is a German language course that examines the German economic structure and its major components: industry, trade unions, the banking system, and the government. Participants will learn about the business culture in Germany and how to be effective in a work environment, Germany's role within the European Union, the importance of trade and globalization, and current economic issues in Germany.  The materials consist of authentic documents from the German business world, TV footage, and a Business German textbook.#
&GERST 2703 | Thinking Media&
#For description, see GERST 2703.#
&GERST 3013 | German Language Across the Curriculum (LAC)&
#This 1-credit optional course aims to expand the students' vocabulary, and advance their speaking and reading skills as well as enhance their knowledge and deepen their cultural understanding by supplementing non-language courses throughout the University.#
&GERST 3080 | Walking the Line: East and West Germany Then and Now&
#This course is aimed to increase your linguistic competencies in German, your cultural awareness, as well as critical thinking skills. We will discuss different perspectives of the German Reunification and its implications then and today. The highlight of the course will be an intercultural encounter with students from the Bielefeld Universität in Germany.#
&GERST 3290 | Mean Streets: German Crime and Detective Fiction&
#This class surveys the history and contemporary developments of crime and detective fiction in German. In addition, we may read a number of theoretical reflections on the figure of the detective, the history of police detection, and the literary crime and detective genre(s). The historical development of, and theoretical reflections on, the crime genre in the anglophone world will serve as points of comparison. We may also discuss relevant movies and radio plays, investigate their relation to "literature," and analyze the specificity of each medium as well as its representational affinity with crime and detection. The readings will for the most part be in German and may include such authors as Gilbert Adair, Richard Alewyn, Friedrich Ani, Jakob Arjouni, Bertolt Brecht, Ernst Bloch, Jorge Luis Borges, Kurt Bracharz, Raymond Chandler, Wilkie Collins, Arthur Conan Doyle, Friedrich Dürrenmatt, Friedrich Glauser, Wolf Haas, Peter Handke, Helmut Heißenbüttel, Paulus Hochgatterer, Philip Kerr, Georg Klein, Alfred Komarek, Siegfried Kracauer, Ross MacDonald, August Gottlieb Meißner, Astrid Paprotta, Edgar Allan Poe, Thomas De Quincey, Ulrich Ritzel, Ferdinand von Schirach, Friedrich Schiller, Hansjörg Schneider, Martin Suter, Jan Costin Wagner.#
&GERST 3575 | Introduction to Black German Studies&
#During her time in Germany, the U.S. poet Audre Lorde (who described herself as "Black, lesbian, mother, warrior poet") sought out community and encouraged Black Germans to speak up and make themselves visible as Afro-Germans in a country that often ignored or invalidated their existences. This is one of many crucial moments in Black German history and Black German Studies. In this course will explore the histories, activism, literature, and scholarship that arise from Afro-German communities and have shaped the field of Black German Studies. We will engage with films, novels, poetry, short stories, graphic narratives, music videos, and scholarly essays. Considering the great variety of media and genres, we will spend class time not only developing a shared vocabulary to talk about each text, but we will also learn to apply differing methods of analysis in our class discussions and individual assignments.#
&GERST 3580 | Nineteenth Century Philosophy&
#Survey of nineteenth century philosophy.#
&GERST 4380 | Imagining Utopia&
#Why is it easier to imagine the end of the world than the end of capitalism? At a time when reality appears dystopian, many are quick to dismiss utopian visions as naïve or irresponsible. In this seminar, we take on the critical and imaginative task of considering what utopias can tell us about our pasts, presents, and possible futures. We encounter two centuries of utopias in which communes have displaced the family, mutual aid has taken the place of capitalist individualism, and sexuality is no longer linked to property rights. While these speculative times and places seek to overcome capitalism, imperialism, racism, sexism, homophobia, transphobia, and the climate crisis, they remain haunted by these figures. Our treatment of utopias in theory and literature therefore includes a range of ambivalent affects and genres, from critical and ambiguous utopias to philosophical treatises and manifestos.#
&GERST 4520 | Independent Study&
#Undergraduate student and faculty advisor to determine course of study and credit hours.#
&GERST 4530 | Honors Research&
#The Reading Course is administered by the director of the honors thesis. It carries 4 hours credit, and may be counted towards the work required for the German Major. The reading concentrates on a pre-determined topic or area. Students meet with their honors advisor about every two weeks throughout the term. Substantial reading assignments are given, and occasional short essays are written.#
&GERST 4540 | Honors Thesis&
#The thesis is to be written on a subject related to the work done in GERST 4530.  A suggested length for the thesis is 50-60 pages.#
&GERST 6221 | Topics in Modern Philosophy&
#Advanced discussion of topics or authors in "modern" Western philosophy (circa the 17th and 18th centuries).#
&GERST 6320 | Reading Academic German II&
#Emphasis on development of the specialized vocabulary of student's field of study.#
&GERST 6340 | German Romanticism&
#This graduate seminar introduces major authors, themes, and problems in European -- also German -- literature, philosophy, art, and critical theory from ca. 1770 to 1830.  This, our own, legacy includes: Europe and North America (including Haiti) between and in revolutions.  Writers thus include: Toussaint L'Ouveture, Kleist, the Schlegel brothers, Fichte, Schelling.  Also Tieck, E.T.A. Hoffmann, Novalis, etc.  So-called secondary literature includes: Marx and Engels on the "German ideology"; Lukács on the "flight from reality" and "Romantic philosophy of life: Novalis"; Freud on the "uncanny"; Heidegger on "the other beginning" and the "essence of human freedom" (in Hölderlin, also in Schelling and Nietzsche); Adorno on "parataxis" (in Hölderin); Balibar (on the "internal border" in Fichte); Paul de Man (on the "rhetoric of romanticism"); Lacoue-Labarthe & Nancy (on the "literary absolute," following W. Benjamin); "the absorption of the subject" in painting (M. Fried); the "war machine" (Deleuze & Guattari); and the "crisis of reproduction" (Althusser) -- the latter also involving not only sexuality and class struggle in all known forms, but also reading and seeing, feeling, thinking and acting.#
&GERST 6355 | Images and History: Siegfried Kracauer&
#The aim of this course is to investigate the relationship between history and images, by considering, the work of an outstanding representative of twentieth-century critical theory.  Siegfried Kracauer left a rich body of works spanning from the sociology of mass culture to film criticism and the philosophy of history. This seminar will analuze his theory of images by following his intellectual trajectory from Europe to the United States. We will read his early essays on photography an reification, as well as his well-known works on film theory and history (from Caligari to Hitler, Theory of Film; and History: The Last Things Before the Last). Thus, we will inscribe Kracauer into his historical and intellectual context, shaped by other thinkersof images such as Th. W. Adorno, W. Benjamin, E. Panofsky, and M. Schapiro.#
&GERST 6363 | Queer Marxism&
#Are queer theory and Marxism truly irreconcilable? While queer studies emerged in part as a rejection of Marxism's totalizing approach and Marxists have criticized the queer emphasis on individuals, this seminar explores the potential of bringing the two fields together. We will consider how queer critiques of reproductive futurism, racial capitalism, and homonationalism can transform the legacy of Marxist theory and practice. At the same time, we will examine Marxist notions of totality, reification, and value to reenvision the scope of queer politics. After covering these key Marxist and queer theoretical concepts, the seminar will turn to transnational Marxist debates on gender and sexuality in Weimar Germany and the Soviet Union. We will conclude the seminar with a discussion of new scholarship in the emergent field of queer Marxism and a symposium with presentations by seminar participants.#
&GERST 6385 | The German Novel: History, Theory and Context&
#Overview of the History of the German Novel with emphasis on the 18th, 19th and 20th centuries. Contemporary developments will be included. Discussion of genre questions, theories of the novel, historical contexts, literary marketing, readerships and authorship. Authors include: Blanckenburg, Spielhagen, Schlegel, Novalis, Jean Paul, Goethe, Grillparzer, Tieck, Keller, Stifter, Fontane, Lukacs, Thomas Mann, Adorno, Musil, Rilke, Walser, Handke, Bernhard, Kafka, Erpenbeck, Dodua Otoo, Salzmann.#
&GERST 6405 | Thinking Media Studies&
#This required seminar for the new graduate minor in media studies considers media from a wide number of perspectives, ranging from the methods of cinema and television studies to those of music, information science, communication, science and technology studies, and beyond. Historical and theoretical approaches to media are intertwined with meta-critical reflections on media studies as an interdisciplinary field of inquiry. Close attention will be paid to media's role in shaping and being shaped by race, ethnicity, class, gender, sexuality, and other politically constructed categories of identity and sociality.#
&GERST 7540 | Independent Study&
#Graduate student and faculty advisor to determine course of study and credit hours.#
&GERST 7541 | Colloquium&
#The course consists of a bi-weekly workshop series focusing on a range of interdisciplinary topics and sponsored by the Institute for German Cultural Studies (IGCS). Speakers include prominent scholars in the field of German Studies (understood in a wide, interdisciplinary sense) and advanced graduate students, who discuss their work-in-progress based on pre-circulated papers. Besides attending the workshops, course participants meet with the instructor for two additional sessions devoted to pursuing the ties between the topics and disciplinary fields showcased by the speakers and the students' own work. The course is thus intended both as a survey of disciplinary approaches in German and Humanities Studies and as a framework that allows graduate students to hone professional skills (presenter and panel respondent, newsletter contributor, etc).#


$GOVT | Government$
&GOVT 1101 | FWS: Power and Politics&
#This First-Year Writing Seminar is devoted to the study of political power and the interaction of citizens and governments and provides the opportunity to write extensively about these issues. Topics vary by term.#
&GOVT 1313 | Introduction to Comparative Government and Politics&
#This course will introduce students to comparative politics—the study of the political institutions, identities, and organized interests in countries around the world. Emphasis is on how to make meaningful comparisons between systems in different countries. Towards that goal, we will be looking at a dozen countries with different histories, political systems, and from various regions around the world. We will also use a comparative framework to use our knowledge of these (and other) countries to examine questions about democracies and democratization, electoral systems and political parties, authoritarian regimes, political mobilization and change, economic development and globalization, nationalism and identity politics, among other topics. The meta theme of this course is the comparative method as a unique way of leveraging our understanding about social and political phenomena.#
&GOVT 1503 | Introduction to Africana Studies&
#At the inception of this department at Cornell University in 1969, the Africana Studies and Research Center became the birthplace of the field "Africana studies." Africana studies emphasizes comparative and interdisciplinary studies of Africa, the U.S., the Caribbean and other diasporas. In this course, we will look at the diverse contours of the discipline. We will explore contexts ranging from modernity and the Trans-Atlantic slave trade and plantation complex in the New World to processes of decolonization and globalization in the contemporary digital age. This course offers an introduction to the study of Africa, the U.S., the Caribbean and other diasporas. This course will examine, through a range of disciplines, among them literature, history, politics, philosophy, the themes - including race/racism, the Middle Passage, sexuality, colonialism, and culture - that have dominated Africana Studies since its inception in the late-1960s. We will explore these issues in an attempt to understand how black lives have been shaped in a historical sense; and, of course, the effects of these issues in the contemporary moment. This course seeks to introduce these themes, investigate through one or more of the disciplines relevant to the question, and provide a broad understanding of the themes so as to enable the kind of intellectual reflection critical to Africana Studies.#
&GOVT 1571 | American Defense Policy and Military History from the Two World Wars to the Global War on Terror&
#America is finishing up two wars, one in Iraq and one in Afghanistan. They have been the longest wars in American history and have ended amid much ambivalence about the US engagement in each place and the results. They are part of a series of wars that America has fought as a global power, with a global reach, sending its forces thousands of miles from home. That global reach is not new, and goes back all the way to 1898 and the Spanish-American War. This course will look at the American military experience from our first tentative steps onto the global stage in 1898, to the earth-spanning conflicts of World War I and II, to the nuclear tension of Cold War conflicts, and finish with the current Long War against terrorism, and the conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan.#
&GOVT 1623 | From Samurai to Superpower: Japan in World History II&
#In 1868, samurai revolutionaries and their allies seized the reins of power and established a new capital they called Tokyo. Against all odds, this fragile regime survived and made Tokyo a center of power that would transform both Japan and the world. This survey of Japanese history explores the rise and fall of Japan as a modern imperial power; its foreign relations; its economic and scientific development from "feudalism" to futuristic technologies; and Japan's many modern revolutions, from the rule of the samurai to Westernization and democracy, from democratic collapse to fascism and World War II, and from Japan's postwar rebirth to the present. We will examine not only big events but also everyday life, including gender and sexuality, family and schools, and art and popular culture.#
&GOVT 2152 | (Im)migration and (Im)migrants: Then and Now&
#How are migration dynamics produced? How do states and communities respond to and shape complex migration processes? This course will draw on the United States as a case study, focusing on Latino immigrants. Latinos are by far the largest immigrant group in the U.S., representing about 50% of all immigrants. Additionally, the U.S. has historically received the largest number of immigrants in the world. The class will examine the main debates around migration in fields such as Latino studies, migration studies, and political science. We begin with a historical and contemporary survey of global and regional migration trends. Next, we will review theories explaining why people migrate and how countries manage migration processes. We then focus on the U.S. immigration apparatus, examining past and present changes, including migration public policies. Central to this class is the exploration of multiple systems of marginalization that shape the opportunities, material conditions, and lived experiences of immigrants in the U.S. We conclude with an exploration of historical and contemporary migrant-led forms of resistance, such as the Immigrant Rights Movement, and its linkages to other transnational struggles for social justice.#
&GOVT 2162 | US Public Opinion&
#This course provides an overview of public opinion in the United States. We will learn how opinions affect and are affected by politics. This course is divided into two sections where we will answer two questions. First, what is public opinion and how is it reported in the news? Students will learn how the design and implementation of surveys affects survey outcomes, and why this means we sometimes see different statistics about the public's opinion across news sources. Second, what shapes public opinion? In the second half of the course, we will turn to the different political and personal forces that shape how the public thinks about different issues. For example, how do our friends, family, and elected officials change how we think about current events?#
&GOVT 2274 | Global Studies Gateway&
#This overview course will take a thematic and interdisciplinary approach to major questions of our time, including health, development, migrations, security, technology, inequality, and innovation. We will explore issues that span international borders, and yet observe variation in unique places, contexts, and time periods.  The course endeavors to prepare students for the world through cultivating knowledge of different cultures, and deepening understanding of global affairs through innovative research.  We will think comparatively across major world regions, and work on issues that integrate specific regions within the larger international community. By applying multi-disciplinary knowledge from the sciences, social sciences, and the humanities, students will better understand the character of world regions, their respective trajectories, and the way those trajectories fit within the larger context of globalization.#
&GOVT 2605 | Social and Political Philosophy&
#This course will examine key issues in social and political philosophy. Topics may include the legitimacy of the state, political obligation, the nature and demands of justice, equality, liberty, and autonomy. Selected readings may be drawn from historical as well as contemporary sources.#
&GOVT 2847 | Political History of Modern Afghanistan&
#Is Afghanistan part of Central Asia, South Asia, or the Middle East? Is it truly the 'graveyard of empires'? Why are great powers so interested in intervening in this country? Why did Britain, the Soviet Union, and the United States fail to maintain their presence there? How does Afghan society and politics function? In this course, students will have the opportunity to explore answers to these and other questions.#
&GOVT 3007 | China in Transition&
#This seminar, using faculty-directed research projects, is intended to survey China's transformation through revolution and reform since 1949, and to examine major issues under the themes of modernity and sustainability in the reform era.#
&GOVT 3017 | Chinese Perspectives on International and Global Affairs&
#This course, offered by faculty members of Peking University's School of International Studies, provides Chinese perspectives on contemporary China's international relations.#
&GOVT 3051 | Being Native in the 21st Century: American Indian and Alaska Native Politics, History, and Policy&
#The course examines the historical political landscape of American Indians and Alaska Natives in the United States and the interplay between tribal interests, politics, and the federal government. The course also looks at contemporary Native issues, federal policy and programs, tribal governance, relations between Tribal Nations and states and between Tribal Nations and the federal government. Finally, the course will explore Indigenous pop-culture and its influence on federal policy.#
&GOVT 3087 | International Human Rights Law and Advocacy&
#This course will introduce students to the law and practice of international human rights. Students will think critically about the effectiveness of the international human rights system by examining its successes, failures, and dilemmas in preventing and responding to human rights abuse. Topics covered include the origins of international human rights; the role of international, regional, and domestic institutions and actors in enforcing human rights; critiques of the human rights movement; challenges encountered in human rights advocacy; and the relationship of the United States to the international system for the protection of human rights. The course will also explore issues such as the immigration, the death penalty, gender justice, climate change, global poverty, racism and xenophobia, and responses to mass atrocities. Throughout this interactive course, students will have frequent opportunities to step into the shoes of a human rights advocate and work individually and with their classmates to address simulated human rights problems.#
&GOVT 3091 | Science in American Politics&
#This course reviews the changing relations between science, technology, and the state in America, focusing on the period from 1960 to the present. We will explore science-intensive policy controversies. We will also look at how science and technology are used in different institutional settings, such as Congress, the court system, and regulatory agencies. Among other issues, we will examine the tension between the concept of science as an autonomous system for producing knowledge and the concept of science as entangled with interest groups.#
&GOVT 3112 | Congress and the Legislative Process&
#The course will be a lecture course on Congress, introducing them to the political science literature on the topic and the major research questions and approaches. We will examine the development of the institution, including formal theories for congressional organization as well as historically and politically oriented accounts of rule changes, committee power, and party influence. We will also look at the determinants of legislative productivity and gridlock, approaches to measuring and analyzing congressional behavior, the changing role of the electoral connection, and the causes and consequences of polarization.#
&GOVT 3131 | The Nature, Functions, and Limits of Law&
#A general-education course to acquaint students with how our legal system pursues the goals of society. The course introduces students to various perspectives on the nature of law, what functions it ought to serve in society, and what it can and cannot accomplish. The course proceeds in the belief that such matters constitute a valuable and necessary part of a general education, not only for pre-law students but especially for students in other fields. Assigned readings comprise legal materials and also secondary sources on the legal process and the role of law in society. The classes include discussion and debate about current legal and social issues, including equality, safety, the environment, punishment, and autonomy.#
&GOVT 3132 | Sanctuary in the Americas: Envisioning a Borderless World&
#This class will examine historical and contemporary developments in the politics of resistance, solidarity, and inclusionary policies around migration. We will place a special focus on North and Central America to understand the emergence and development of both the Old and the New Sanctuary Movements, broadly defined, as a transnational and diverse coalition of religious and political groups such as churches, synagogues, NGOs, educational institutions, and pro-migrant states and cities that offer "safe haven" or "sanctuary" to migrants holding various legal statuses. In addition, we will examine the origins, development, and current state of subnational pro-migrant public policies in the region. We will close the class with reflections on what a world without borders could look like. This course draws on a range of interdisciplinary theories and methods from the social sciences and humanities that will allow students to analyze, imagine, and devise creative ways of inclusion toward migrants and marginalized populations.#
&GOVT 3174 | Nationalism and Identity&
#No description available.#
&GOVT 3242 | Reflecting on the Intersections of Education and Prison Systems&
#The "school-to-prison track" refers to policies and practices that facilitate the transfer of students out of the school system and into the prison system (including juvenile detention, county jail, immigration detention centers, or adult prison). This course takes a critical analytical look at the intersections of the prisons and schooling, emphasizing pedagogy, history and policy.#
&GOVT 3271 | Constitutional Law: An Introduction&
#In this course, we will examine one of the most important documents in American history – our Constitution.  Course topics will include the historical background of the document from the Magna Carta to the Declaration of Independence and the Articles of Confederation.  We will look at the creation of the Constitution, including the conflict between strong supporters of this proposed new Constitution (Federalists) and their opponents (Anti-Federalists). How did the Founders resolve their differences and what led the States to adopt a document limiting and balancing the powers of the President, Congress, and the Judiciary? We shall look at the constant tension (from the beginning to the present) over the balance of power between the three co-equal branches.  We shall discuss the role of the Constitution from both empirical and theoretical perspectives and look at how it has evolved from 1788 to the present day. Special attention will be paid to the use of Amendments, particularly the Bill of Rights, to address events/circumstances unforeseen by the drafters.  Finally, the course will discuss critical cases where the Supreme Court defined and redefined what the Constitution meant.#
&GOVT 3583 | Comparative Public Policy: Political Pathways to Equality&
#Why do some countries offer universal health care coverage, free higher education, or personal financial security, while others do not?  What explains the alternative national approaches to similar global challenges, such as those posed by climate change, the gig economy, or migration? This course explores how the public policy strategies adopted in the United States compare to those adopted in other affluent democracies – through the lens of socio-economic inequality. Examining how different countries confront the same issue allows us to identify the policies that redress it, how their content can vary, and why so. The course therefore underscores the reason for these differences: politics and government. Together, we will examine the multiple political pathways to creating public policy across these societies, as well as their effects on the people that live in them.#
&GOVT 3596 | Politics of Modernity&
#This courses re-traces modern political thought through four concepts that characterize its emergence: nature, freedom, rights, and revolution. This course engages these concepts through texts across several genres, primarily those produced in the Italian city-states, Britain, France, and Germany. Beginning with Niccolò Machiavelli, we will first consider what exactly participants in "modernity" understood themselves to be doing. Next, alongside the works of Thomas Hobbes, John Locke, and Jean-Jacques Rousseau, we will explore how these ideas about modernity inflect their understanding of nature and ground their understandings of political freedom. Then, we will engage with these insights in tandem with conflicts over notions of the citizen as a rights-bearing figure in the years of the American and French Revolutions through the works of Mary Wollstonecraft, Thomas Paine, and Edmund Burke. We will conclude by examining the legacy of revolution in modern political thinking in the works of Karl Marx and Friedrich Nietzsche.#
&GOVT 3715 | Colonialism and Anticolonialism&
#This seminar overviews political theories of colonialism and empire, and in doing so, allows us to pose questions about the constitutive elements of our modernity, such as slavery, racism, dependency, and dispossession.  Throughout the semester, we will examine the relationship between former colonies and political and economic configurations (nationalism, internationalism, capitalism, socialism), as well as philosophical and epistemological questions about the relationship between the universal and the particular, and the imperatives of history-writing.  The course material will give us an opportunity to conclude with questions about whether or not the process of decolonizing our world and our study of it is complete or an ongoing project.#
&GOVT 3777 | Controversies in Security Studies&
#Do alliances deter conflict or encourage them? Does nuclear proliferation create instability or paradoxically improve peace between parties? Do international organizations – such as the International Court of Justice – actually prevent human rights abuses? These questions are all subject to some controversy in the field of security studies, with competing theories and evidence on both sides of the equation. This course is dedicated to evaluating both sides of a different critical debate in security studies every week, evaluating the theories and evidence each side brings to the table. In doing so, the class with both survey some of the key areas of active research in the security field, but will also facilitate students argumentative writing, analytical evaluation, and data literacy skills.#
&GOVT 3857 | American Foreign Policy&
#This course is dedicated to surveying and critically evaluating the theoretical models and decisions that seek to explain American foreign policy with an emphasis on the post-WWII period. We will cover the different foreign policy decision-making models and prominent issues in foreign policy such as grand strategy, Congress, the presidency, and public support.#
&GOVT 3867 | International Security and the Causes of War&
#This course is an introduction to the scientific study of international security with a focus on the causes of war between states, the causes of civil wars, and other forms of violence such as terrorism, piracy, and transnational crime. By surveying the theoretical foundations, historical case studies, correlates, and scholarly findings of why various international conflicts exists, we will investigate the central puzzle of war, that it is costly, but nevertheless recurs. The class is divided into three sections: theoretical explanations, conflict processes, and explaining peace.#
&GOVT 3967 | What is China?&
#China is often thought of as being isolated from the outside world. It is imagined as existing in historic seclusion, and, following the establishment of the People's Republic, as pursuing a path of autarky. Such separation has then only been somewhat modified by the set of economic reforms that Deng Xiaoping first instituted in the late 1970s. In this lecture we will seek to turn such conventional wisdom on its head through examining "what China is" via a consideration of transnational currents within the country's development. However, the course's primary focus will not be upon the past, but rather the present and attempting to determine just where the point of intersection between China and the rest of the world is. Coming to terms with such an issue will provide those who enroll in the class with a deeper, more nuanced, understanding of China's rise and this trend's implications for the rest of the world. We will accomplish this task through a combination of surveying the existing literature on China and transnational politics, and considering new theoretical perspectives on both.#
&GOVT 4000 | Major Seminar&
#Major seminars in the Government department are small, advanced courses that cover an important theme or topic in contemporary politics in depth. Courses place particular emphasis on careful reading and classroom discussion, and students can expect to write a significant research paper. These courses are open to all Cornell students, but preference in admissions is given to seniors over juniors, and to Government majors over other students. Topics vary by semester and section. Fall 2024 Topics include: Empire and Black Radical Political Thought; Empire and (Anti)Colonial Violence; Feminisms: Simone de Beauvoir as Political Thinker; Pirates, Sailors, and Terrorists; Climate Change and International Security; Inequality and the Welfare State; Russian Politics. Spring 2025 Topics include: Equality; Martin Luther King, Jr.; Politics of Public Policy.#
&GOVT 4021 | American Conservative Thought&
#American conservative thought rests on assumptions that are strikingly different from those made by mainstream American liberals.  However, conservative thinkers are themselves committed to principles that are both quite varied and sometimes contradictory.  This course examines the assumptions upon which rest the libertarian, market/economic, and cultural/traditional strains of American conservatism and asks whether the tensions between them weaken or strengthen conservative thought as an alternative to mainstream liberalism.#
&GOVT 4037 | Making Sense of China: The Capstone Seminar&
#This course serves as a survey of major issues within Chinese politics and foreign policy and constitutes the capstone seminar for CAPS students. It is intended to give students an opportunity to explore aspects related to Chinese politics, economics, and society that they may have touched upon in other China-focused courses at Cornell, but have not been able to examine as fully, and with the degree of care, that they would like. In this regard, the substance of the course will be developed through an iterative process between the instructor and the seminar participants. We will spend the first part of the course doing a series of recent influential readings on contemporary China and developing initial research projects. The second half of the class will be organized around student led presentations of research projects (accompanied by relevant academic, media, and policy readings).#
&GOVT 4959 | Honors Thesis: Research and Writing&
#GOVT 4959 is the second semester of honors thesis research, limited to students who have completed  GOVT 4949 - Honors Seminar: Thesis Clarification and Research. There is no formal class meeting. Instead, students will work on their own, with their advisers and other faculty they may consult. Following the plan developed in the fall semester, they will proceed to gather and analyze data or texts, turning in thesis chapters to the adviser on a regular schedule that the student and adviser develop.#
&GOVT 4998 | Engaged Learning About Policy Making in Washington D.C.&
#The core course at Cornell in Washington is an engaged learning class that focuses on understanding and analyzing the professional experience of being in DC. Its primary purpose is to give students a chance to sunthesize the lessons of their internship work by examining and reflecting on that work, investigating the context and structures of the policy and political world with which they are engaging, and learning and practicing the professional forms of writing that the community uses. This process occurs through readings, written assignments, guest speakers, and signature events. An internship is required for the class.#
&GOVT 4999 | Undergraduate Independent Study&
#One-on-one tutorial arranged by the student with a faculty member of his or her choosing. Open to government majors doing superior work, and it is the responsibility of the student to establish the research proposal and to find a faculty sponsor. Applicants for independent study must present a well-defined program of study that cannot be satisfied by pursuing courses in the regularly scheduled curriculum. No more than 4 credits of independent study may count toward fulfillment of the major. Students who elect to continue taking this course for more than one semester must select a new theme or subject each semester. Credit can be given only for work that results in a satisfactory amount of writing. Emphasis is on the capacity to subject a body of related readings to analysis and criticism. Keep in mind that independent study cannot be used to fulfill the seminar requirement. The application form for independent study must be completed at the beginning of the semester in which the course is being taken.#
&GOVT 6011 | The American State&
#Contemporary politics raise profound questions about the American past and how aspects of it have traveled across time and into the present, shaping US government and politics. This PhD-level seminar uses historical and institutional lenses to examine analytical questions about the origins and development of the American state as well as processes of political change. In Spring 2021, we will explore American political development with an eye toward understanding how threats to democracy have waxed and waned and combined over time, and the implications for the present. We will focus on topics such as political parties and polarization; conflict over belongs, with respect to race and gender; economic inequality; and executive aggrandizement. We will read some classic texts as well as new and recent ones.#
&GOVT 6029 | Advanced Regression Analysis&
#This course builds upon 6019, covering in detail the interpretation and estimation of multivariate linear regression models. We derive the Ordinary Least Squares estimator and its characteristics using matrix algebra and determine the conditions under which it achieves statistical optimality. We then consider the circumstances in social scientific contexts which commonly lead to assumption violations, and the detection and implications of these problems. This leads to modified regression estimators that can offer limited forms of robustness in some of these cases. Finally, we briefly introduce likelihood-based techniques that incorporate assumptions about the distribution of the response variable, focusing on logistic regression for binary dependent variables. Students are expected to produce a research paper built around a quantitative analysis that is suitable for presentation at a professional conference. Some time will be spent reviewing matrix algebra, and discussing ways to implement computations using statistical software.#
&GOVT 6031 | Field Seminar in American Politics&
#The major issues, approaches, and institutions of American government and the various subfields of American politics are introduced. The focus is on both substantive information and theoretical analysis, plus identification of big questions that have animated the field.#
&GOVT 6045 | Law and Literature&
#What can lawyers and judges learn from the study of literature? This course explores the relevance of imaginative literature (novels, drama, poetry, and film) to questions of law and social justice from a range of perspectives. We will consider debates about how literature can help to humanize legal decision-making; how storytelling has helped to give voice to oppressed populations over history; how narratives of suffering cultivate popular support for human rights; the role played by storytelling in a trial; and how literature can shed light on the limits of law and public policy.#
&GOVT 6051 | Native Politics and the Nation-to-Nation Relationship&
#The course examines the historical political landscape of American Indians and Alaska Natives in the United States and the interplay between tribal interests, politics, and the federal government. The course also looks at contemporary Native issues, federal policy and programs, tribal governance, relations between Tribal Nations and states and between Tribal Nations and the federal government. Finally, the course will explore Indigenous pop-culture and its influence on federal policy.  Classes will all be in person and will be a mixture of lectures and discussion-based seminars. The majority of classes will have a guest lecturer related to that week's topic. Guest lectures will include, but not limited to, political appointees, congressional staff, political advocates, elected tribal leaders, and more.#
&GOVT 6053 | Comparative Method in International and Comparative Politics&
#An in-depth, graduate-level introduction to qualitative and comparative methods of political analysis, with special emphasis on the application of these methods in comparative and international politics. Through readings, discussions, and written assignments, students will explore strategies for concept formation, theory construction, and theory testing, using the craft and tools of comparative political analysis.#
&GOVT 6109 | Field Methods&
#This graduate seminar introduces students to methods currently used by political scientists to develop and test for observable implications of theoretically-derived arguments using data collected away from their home institutions. Topics covered include the relationships between fieldwork and research design, case and site selection, ethnography and participant observation, interview methods, surveys and experiments in the context of field research, research ethics and human subjects, logistics of field research, grant-writing, safety protocols, and knowing when to come home. The course is designed primarily for students working on dissertation proposals or early stages of dissertation field research, but it may be helpful for students at other stages as well. A goal is to encourage students to specify a field research strategy that links testable hypotheses with methods of data gathering and analysis before commencing field work. Students, therefore, will develop their own research projects as the semester progresses, including writing actual grant proposals, IRB applications, and pre-analysis plans.#
&GOVT 6203 | The Idea of Africana Past and Present&
#This seminar grapples with the idea of Africa as symbol, metaphor, imaginary, and real; received, constructed, and self-enacting; a status, condition, and state of mind; performed, executed, or captured.#
&GOVT 6271 | Constitutional Law: An Introduction&
#In this course, we will examine one of the most important documents in American history – our Constitution.  Course topics will include the historical background of the document from the Magna Carta to the Declaration of Independence and the Articles of Confederation.  We will look at the creation of the Constitution, including the conflict between strong supporters of this proposed new Constitution (Federalists) and their opponents (Anti-Federalists). How did the Founders resolve their differences and what led the States to adopt a document limiting and balancing the powers of the President, Congress, and the Judiciary? We shall look at the constant tension (from the beginning to the present) over the balance of power between the three co-equal branches.  We shall discuss the role of the Constitution from both empirical and theoretical perspectives and look at how it has evolved from 1788 to the present day. Special attention will be paid to the use of Amendments, particularly the Bill of Rights, to address events/circumstances unforeseen by the drafters.  Finally, the course will discuss critical cases where the Supreme Court defined and redefined what the Constitution meant.#
&GOVT 6556 | Gender, Race, and Law in Global Political Economy&
#No description available.#
&GOVT 6594 | Comparative Political Behavior&
#This seminar examines public opinion and political behavior from a comparative perspective using primarily the tools of quantitative social science. We will focus on the intellectual evolution of the field, its core theoretical arguments and controversies, as well as emerging research questions.  The course proceeds thematically. Topics will include  political culture and value change, information processing and opinion formation, both conventional and unconventional forms of political participation, representation, and voter decision-making. Important methodological issues in the cross-national study of public opinion and political behavior are addressed in the context of these substantive questions.#
&GOVT 6846 | Equality&
#This seminar inquires into the interrelations among three meanings of equality that initially appeared in the ancient world: equality before the law, isonomia; equality of voice or participation, isegoria; and equality of power, isokratia. Tacking back and forth between ancient texts and contemporary materials in law and analytic and continental political philosophy, this course will explore how these different practices of equality circulate and interact in popular and institutional (judicial and legislative) settings marked by historical injustice, scarce resources, and asymmetries of wealth and power. This seminar will include texts by Herodotus, Plato, Aristotle, Ta-Nehisi Coates, John Rawls, Bernard Williams, Amartya Sen, Danielle Allen, Etienne Balibar, among others, probing the meaning of equality.#
&GOVT 6865 | Martin Luther King, Jr.&
#This seminar is an intensive study of the political thought of W.E.B. Du Bois and Martin Luther King, Jr. Approaching texts in contexts, we will read works including The Souls of Black Folk, Darkwater, Black Reconstruction in America, Stride toward Freedom, and Where Do We Go from Here? as illocutionary interventions in major political crises and ideological disputes of twentieth century Black political thought. Topics we will explore include freedom and dignity, slavery and its afterlives, racial capitalism, leadership and mass politics, democracy and abolition, empire and decolonization, political aesthetics, and the politics of prophetic critique. We will pay special attention to Du Bois and King's respective contributions in national and transnational contexts of the global color line.#
&GOVT 6895 | Politics and the Speaking Animal&
#According to Aristotle, human beings are political animals because they are speaking animals. What's the connection? What are its implications? Is it anti-political to use violence to compel silence, or to vest authority in philosophical insights beyond language, or to coordinate action mechanically or algorithmically? Is this association of politics with speech ideological, a way of valorizing some utterances while casting others as mere noise? What are the implications of the double gesture of affirming human animality while simultaneously elevating humans above other animals? We'll pursue these questions through a close engagement with the political theory of Hannah Arendt, whom we'll place in critical conversation with a wide range of other ancient, modern, and contemporary sources.#
&GOVT 6998 | Experiential Learning in Policy Making in Washington, DC&
#The core course at Cornell in Washington is an experiential learning class that focuses on engaging with the professional experience of being in DC. Its primary purposes are to give students to build their understanding of their internship work by analyzing and reflecting on that work, understanding the context and structures of the policy and political world with which they are engaging, and learning and practicing the professional forms of writing that that world uses. This process occurs through readings, written assignments, guest speakers, and signature events.#
&GOVT 7937 | Proseminar in Peace Studies&
#The Proseminar in Peace Studies offers a multidisciplinary review of issues related to peace and conflict at the graduate level. The course is led by the director of the Judith Reppy Institute for Peace and Conflict Studies and is based on the Institute's weekly seminar series, featuring outside visitors and Cornell faculty.#
&GOVT 7999 | Independent Study&
#Individualized readings and research for graduate students. Topics, readings, and writing requirements are designed through consultation between the student and the instructor. Graduate students in government who are looking to use this as an option to fulfill their course requirements should check with their chairs to be certain that the program of study is acceptable for this purpose. Applications must be completed and signed by the instructor and by the chairs of their special committees. They are available from, and must be returned to, the graduate assistant in 212 White Hall.#


$GRAD | Graduate Research$
&GRAD 9010 | Graduate-Level Research&
#No description available.#
&GRAD 9011 | Doctoral Dissertation Research&
#No description available.#
&GRAD 9012 | Master's Thesis Research&
#No description available.#
&GRAD 9110 | Professional Career Foundations&
#Practical tips to focus a job search, develop strategies to identify a meaningful career and empower you to make an impact. Through discussions, immersive activities and professional networking, participants will hone communication of their strengths and fit to employers' needs to set themselves apart as top candidates.#


$GREEK | Greek$
&GREEK 1102 | Elementary Ancient Greek II&
#Continuation of GREEK 1101, prepares students for GREEK 2101.#
&GREEK 1104 | Beginning Homeric Greek&
#This course offers a ground up introduction to the vocabulary and grammar of Homeric Greek with the goal of reading Homer's Iliad and Odyssey as soon as possible. Once students learn the language of the Iliad and Odyssey, they can move on to other works written in roughly the same formulaic diction, ranging from Hesiod's Theogony to the early philosophical verses of Empedocles and Parmenides. Teaching Beginning Homeric Greek at Cornell, affectionately known as 'baby' Greek, harkens back almost 100 years to the influential and popular courses of Professor Harry Caplan. In fact, this course uses an updated version of the same textbook used in Caplan's beginning Greek courses.#
&GREEK 2103 | Homer&
#The study of selections from the Iliad and/or Odyssey in Greek, with a focus on Homeric grammar, dialect, meter, poetics and composition.#
&GREEK 3120 | Seminar in Greek&
#Undergraduate seminar in Greek. Fall 2024 topic: Family intrigue in Herodotus and Lysias. Spring 2025 topic: Euripides' Herakles, Plato's Euthyphro.#
&GREEK 3185 | Independent Study in Greek, Undergraduate Level&
#May be taken upon completion of one semester of work at the 3000-level. To be taken only in exceptional circumstances. Must be arranged by the student with their advisor and the faculty member who has agreed to direct the study. To be approved by the DUS.#
&GREEK 5112 | Elementary Ancient Greek II&
#Continuation of GREEK 5111, prepares students for GREEK 5121.#
&GREEK 5114 | Beginning Homeric Greek&
#This course offers a ground up introduction to the vocabulary and grammar of Homeric Greek with the goal of reading Homer's Iliad and Odyssey as soon as possible. Once students learn the language of the Iliad and Odyssey, they can move on to other works written in roughly the same formulaic diction, ranging from Hesiod's Theogony to the early philosophical verses of Empedocles and Parmenides. Teaching Beginning Homeric Greek at Cornell, affectionately known as 'baby' Greek, harkens back almost 100 years to the influential and popular courses of Professor Harry Caplan. In fact, this course uses an updated version of the same textbook used in Caplan's beginning Greek courses.#
&GREEK 5123 | Homer&
#The study of selections from the Iliad and/or Odyssey in Greek, with a focus on Homeric grammar, dialect, meter, poetics and composition.#
&GREEK 5130 | Seminar in Greek&
#Fall 2024 topic: Family intrigue in Herodotus and Lysias. Spring 2025 topic: Euripides' Herakles, Plato's Euthyphro.#
&GREEK 6102 | Advanced Readings in Greek Literature&
#Topics for this course vary by instructor.#
&GREEK 7161 | Greek Philosophical Texts&
#Reading and translation of Greek Philosophical texts.#
&GREEK 7910 | Independent Study in Greek&
#Independent study in Greek for graduate students.#


$HADM | Hotel Administration$
&HADM 1150 | Organizational Behavior and Leadership Skills&
#This course provides students with the theoretical lenses and interpersonal skills required to become effective leaders of themselves and others at all organizational levels. With a particular emphasis on the hospitality industry, students develop an understanding and appreciation of the complexities of leading and managing individuals, teams and organizations, and acquire practical tools for accomplishing personal leadership and organizational goals within a service-based framework. Topics include understanding individual differences, leveraging conflict management, applying team-based problem-solving, understanding power and influence dynamics, principles of motivation, coaching and leadership, understanding of group process, and ethics.  The course emphasizes practical application of all concepts to students' personal and professional lives and goals, with particular emphasis on work-life in hospitality and broadly, service contexts. Students learn through the use of case studies, self-assessments, experiential exercises, readings, discussions, papers, and group activities.#
&HADM 1199 | Hotelie LaunchPad II: Maximizing and Leveraging the Cornell Experience&
#Hospitality is about engaging people through warm and genuine experiences with the goal of building loyal relationships. No longer just about lodging and foodservice, hospitality is now being recognized as a key aspect of many other kinds of business and service ventures. This course is designed to help you get a clearer idea of who you are, where your passions might lie within the very broad scope of hospitality, and how you can craft a successful Cornell Nolan Hotel School experience that helps launch you in the direction (or directions!) you want to go. Also, this course will prepare you for the inevitable challenges you will confront as a student at a world-class institution – managing your time, mastering content, dealing with pressure, and making connections.#
&HADM 1210 | Financial Accounting&
#An introduction to financial accounting that studies transaction analysis, the balance sheet, income statement, statement of cash flows, and the statement of stockholder's equity. Accounting for investments, receivables, inventories, tangible and intangible assets, liabilities, long term bonds and capital stock transactions are studied. Basic financial ratios are introduced and interpreted. Ethical issues related to financial reporting are also discussed. Students who complete this course will have the pre-requisite knowledge to take HADM 2210  Managerial Accounting and HADM 2220 Finance.#
&HADM 1350 | Introduction to Hotel Operations&
#This course will cover two broad topics: I) an overview of the hotel industry, and II) the operations of the Rooms Division of a hotel.   It will also serve as a 'survey course' by introducing a wide range of topics that students will study in more depth in future courses.#
&HADM 1361 | Principles of Food and Beverage Operations Management&
#In this course students are introduced to the principles of food and beverage operations management. Attention is focused on market segments and industry structure with an emphasis on product and systems differentiation. Course goals include a conceptual understanding of, and the practical application of (e.g., lab activities), the components of foodservice systems: menu and product development and management, production, service, controls, financial analysis, food safety, ethics, and quality assurance.#
&HADM 1410 | Microeconomics for the Service Industry&
#Introduces students to microeconomic principles and theories in the context of applications and solutions associated with the service industry with a focus on hospitality and travel. Topics include principles of production, supply and demand, firm behavior, costs, pricing, and topics specifically associated with the travel and hospitality industry. Course work includes readings, lectures, discussions, problem sets, and guest speakers.#
&HADM 1650 | Business Writing for Hospitality Professionals&
#Introduces the role and importance of effective communication in managerial work, especially in the hospitality industry. Students develop abilities in analytical thinking and clear expression. With an emphasis on business writing, this course builds foundational skills for creating professional-level communications. Students plan, develop, and produce increasingly complex written communications and deliver oral presentations.#
&HADM 1740 | Business Computing&
#This course covers how to use the Microsoft Office productivity suite to analyze and solve business problems, answer business questions and promote effective personal and professional brand management. The overall objective of the course is to illustrate how to use software to promote competitive advantage in three ways: (1) Students will use Word to learn how to efficiently create professional documents that are both appealing and standardized in order to build brand recognition. (2) Students will learn how to use Power Point to visually convey complex information to stakeholders in a manner that promotes shared understanding. (3) Students will use Excel to organize data, transform data into information, and model a complex business problem.#
&HADM 2011 | Hospitality Quantitative Analysis&
#This introductory statistics course is taught from the perspective of solving problems and making decisions within the hospitality industry. Students learn introductory probability, as well as how to gather data, evaluate the quality of data, graphically represent data, and apply some fundamental statistical methodologies. Statistical methods covered include: estimation and hypothesis testing relating to one- and two-sample problems of means, simple linear regression, and multiple regression. Excel is used as the statistical computing software and the class uses a very hands-on approach.#
&HADM 2021 | Critical Thinking and Mathematical Modeling in Operations&
#Operations management is the study of how things work. In this class, we will discuss how operations management can be used to help a hospitality company compete. After completing this course, you will: (1) understand core concepts, models and managerial issues in service operations management, (2) critically assess the performance of service delivery processes, (3) learn how to manage supply and demand, (4) learn how to manage quality, (5) develop proficiency in a range of quantitative and qualitative techniques necessary for hospitality service organizations, (6) learn how to manage a project, and (7) apply the concepts and techniques learned in class to the analysis of real-world service delivery processes.#
&HADM 2170 | Hotel Leadership Development Program&
#The HLDP is a partnership among School faculty and Statler Hotel management, who together guide students and teach them how to become tomorrow's leaders. HADM 2170 is designed to assist you in obtaining a better understanding of the hotel's operations while developing your supervisory skills. As part of HLDP you will be managing your peers as well as individuals who have been in their jobs for many years, and both of these are challenging tasks. Our goal is to prepare you to become qualified and eligible for promotion to supervisor.#
&HADM 2210 | Managerial Accounting&
#This course focuses on the use of accounting information for management decision making and control in hospitality settings. Topics include costing objects, budgeting, financial decision making, cost behavior, and management control systems. There will be one common final exam at the end of the semester.#
&HADM 2220 | Finance&
#This course provides an introduction to core ideas in finance as well as a foundation for further study.  Upon completion of this course students should be able to (1) perform basic valuation of cash flows from projects, bonds, and stocks; (2) demonstrate basic understanding of capital budgeting decisions through the use of concepts including the time value of money and discounted cash flow analysis; (3) assess the relation between risk and return and integrate that knowledge in determining corporate cost of capital; and (4) demonstrate an understanding of the role of debt and equity in corporate capital structure.#
&HADM 2221 | Principles of Hospitality Real Estate&
#This course emphasizes practical valuation and decision-making skills. You will receive an introduction to the business of hospitality and commercial real estate, including content on the major roles, activities and players, terminology, and how the relevant financial tools, institutional concepts, and economic models are used for sound investment decision-making.#
&HADM 2230 | Financial Accounting Principles&
#This introduction to financial accounting covers the preparation of financial statements, from transactional analysis through journal entries to financial statement presentation. We will do in-depth analysis of receivables and payables, revenue and expenses, and major balance sheet items, such as inventory, investments, long term bonds, capital stock, and tangible and intangible assets. We will study preparation of the statement of cash flows using both the direct and indirect methods. Along the way we will introduce some of the concepts of financial statement analysis. We will also discuss ethics in accounting and business. Students will work in teams for some of the time. After successful completion of this course you will be prepared to take an intermediate accounting course.#
&HADM 2250 | Finance&
#This course provides an introduction to core ideas in finance as well as a foundation for further study. Upon completion of this course students should be able to (1) perform basic valuation of cash flows from projects, bonds, and stocks; (2) demonstrate basic understanding of capital budgeting decisions through the use of concepts including the time value of money and discounted cash flow analysis; (3) assess the relation between risk and return and integrate that knowledge in determining corporate cost of capital; and (4) demonstrate an understanding of the role of debt and equity in corporate capital structure.#
&HADM 2351 | Restaurant Management&
#This course covers concepts, issues, and business principles relevant to the restaurant industry, including market analysis, menu and service systems, and financial and operational management and applies them in a real-life restaurant setting. Students conceptualize and manage the operations of an in-person restaurant open to the Cornell community and evaluate the process and outcomes. Successful completion of the course requires students to complete TiPS and ServSafe certifications shortly after the start of the semester.#
&HADM 2410 | Marketing Principles&
#This is a foundational marketing course that includes the study of concepts, activities, and decisions related to the exchange process, managing the marketing mix, and development of marketing strategy in for-profit and not-for-profit organizations. Students learn about basic principles of marketing management, with a special focus on the service industry. Emphasis is placed upon how the concepts and ideas might be applied to various marketing decision-making situations.#
&HADM 2430 | Marketing Management for Services&
#Students develop an understanding of marketing management for hospitality and related service organizations: the process through which organizations analyze, plan, implement, and control programs to develop and maintain beneficial exchanges with target buyers. Students learn about marketing management through a mix of readings, lectures, class discussions, individual and group exercises, industry guest speakers, and exams.#
&HADM 2560 | Fundamentals of Hospitality Development and Management&
#This course provides an overview of the operation of hospitality facilities, including operating costs for various types of facilities, types and characteristics of major building systems, sustainable aspects of building equipment and management, and the responsibilities of the engineering maintenance department. The renovation needs and key managerial aspects of hospitality facility renovation projects are examined. Students are introduced to the issues and opportunities inherent in the development and planning of hospitality facilities, specifically hotels and restaurants. Course components include the project development sequence, conceptual and space planning, architectural design criteria, construction management, and the interpretation of architectural design and consultant drawings. There is an emphasis on setting appropriate facilities requirements, understanding industry practice, and implementing properties decisions within a balanced design, operations, and financial framework.#
&HADM 2720 | Information Retrieval and Research Methods&
#This course introduces the tools necessary to locate, evaluate, and analyze information available online. Students will recognize that authority online is constructed and contextual, as well as the ethical, legal, and economic implications of information. In addition to gaining information management skills, students will enhance their ability to think critically and write professionally.#
&HADM 2740 | Business Computing&
#This course covers how to use the Microsoft Office productivity suite to analyze and solve business problems, answer business questions and promote effective personal and professional brand management. The overall objective of the course is to illustrate how to use software to promote competitive advantage in three ways: (1) Students will use Word to learn how to efficiently create professional documents that are both appealing and standardized in order to build brand recognition. (2) Students will learn how to use Power Point to visually convey complex information to stakeholders in a manner that promotes shared understanding. (3) Students will use Excel to organize data, transform data into information, and model a complex business problem.#
&HADM 2810 | Human Resources Management&
#Facilitates an understanding of the policies, procedures, and systems required to attract, select, develop, and retain quality employees. Students learn about the major environmental factors that affect the HR function, including legislation, economics, and demographics. The course emphasizes HR issues and challenges that are particularly relevant to the hospitality industry. Instruction is based on lecture, discussion, and experiential activities, as well as case analysis and project work.#
&HADM 3055 | Hospitality, Health and Design Industry Immersion Seminar&
#This course provides students the opportunity to learn directly from invited industry speakers with expertise in a spectrum of industries that link health, wellness, senior living with hospitality and design.  The speakers share their views on business, managerial, career, and other critical industry-related issues.#
&HADM 3121 | Experiential Networking II&
#This course is a continuation of HADM 3120. In this interactive course, students will learn the different types and ways to network, how to create their own personal branding statement, best practices on how to reach out to someone you have not met before, ways to master the basics of video communications, and how to share and utilize their networks. This course expands student life and networking skills to add value and grow their knowledge, interpersonal/people skills, and experience to succeed in business and life.#
&HADM 3340 | Franchising in the Hospitality Industry&
#This course provides an introduction to franchising in the hospitality industry, including the advantages and disadvantages of franchising, the complexities of operating a franchise business, and key franchising policies. This course will help students develop the knowledge necessary to succeed as a franchisee, franchisor, or franchise executive.#
&HADM 3365 | Foodservice Management Essentials&
#This course in an introduction to the principles of foodservice operations management, beginning with an overview of the foodservice industry at large. We first focus on major industry segments, business practices, and trends. More consideration is subsequently given to the components of the foodservice system: creating useful financial statements, elements/use of a business plan, marketing, menu design/planning, facilities/production, human resource issues, purchasing/controls, and quality assurance. This fundamental understanding of operations and basic managerial responsibilities will set the stage for further exploration of these issues in subsequent Nolan courses.#
&HADM 3430 | Marketing Research&
#This course helps students become better consumers of marketing research. Topics include issues involved in designing, conducting, and interpreting focus groups, depth interviews, surveys, and experiments. Special emphasis is placed on what each method should and should not be used for and why.#
&HADM 3470 | Consumer Behavior&
#Helps students become better at understanding, predicting, and influencing consumer behavior. Topics include motivation, perception, learning, decision making, attitudes, persuasion, compliance, geodemographics, and psychographics. The practical implications of psychological principles are emphasized. Specific applications involve such areas as guest frequency programs, menu design, promotional strategy, personal selling, sales and marketing planning, and marketing research. Class time is used for discussions and application exercises as well as for the presentation of relevant information.#
&HADM 3510 | Hospitality Facilities Design&
#This intensive studio course provides the graphic skills necessary for design and experience in applying these skills in hospitality planning and design. Using hand drafting skills learned in class, students prepare design projects including design of guest rooms, guest room floors and public space and back-of-house functions. In addition to studio critiques, the course includes in-class discussions of site analysis, target markets, architectural choices and the use of inspirational precedents.#
&HADM 3610 | Communication for Entrepreneurs&
#Communication skills are essential for entrepreneurs. Entrepreneurs face unique communication challenges when communicating with initial investors, business partners, founding employees, first customers, and the media. Students will apply course concepts to their own ideas while developing communication competencies in a variety of entrepreneurial communication contexts.#
&HADM 3650 | Persuasive Business Communication for Hospitality Leaders&
#Develops the knowledge and skills that hospitality managers need to face an array of persuasive communication challenges. This course builds on the principles of effective managerial communication (HADM 1650) and organizational behavior and interpersonal skills (HADM 1150). The course introduces the theory and principles of persuasion and focuses on their application in a range of management and leadership contexts.#
&HADM 3670 | Persuasive and Ethical Communication&
#This course will help you to develop the knowledge and skill as a future organizational leader to address persuasive and real ethical communication challenges. It focuses on the art of applying persuasion theory and principles to a range of diverse leadership and communication contexts.#
&HADM 3740 | Fundamentals of Database Management and Data Analysis&
#Prepares students to create and manage information in a knowledge-based organization. Students learn to design and use database tools  to perform analyses and to make decisions in today's information-rich business environment. The course provides both theoretical and practical perspectives of database design and administration, with a focus on application. To manage this balance, students first gain a foundation of database concepts from lecture and course readings, and subsequently apply these fundamentals through various projects and assignments. Topics include information and information management in organizations; fundamentals of relational database design and implementation; writing and running SQL queries; working in database design teams and as individual research analysts; database design and management using Microsoft Access; database normalization; data-driven decision making; conversion of data into information and knowledge that can be leveraged to achieve business objectives; the role of data and information management in contemporary society; and data management opportunities in the hospitality industry.#
&HADM 3870 | Business and Hospitality Law&
#Provides students with an integrated presentation of employment discrimination, tort, and contract concepts as they apply to the legal aspects of hospitality management. Students examine relevant federal and state cases and statutes. The overall objective is to enable students to recognize, analyze, and evaluate legal issues for the purpose of making and articulating appropriate decisions in the workplace.#
&HADM 3960 | Seminar in Leadership, Diversity, and Inclusion&
#Diversity and inclusion is on everyone's mind. We all know that together, we have to do a better job providing tools and resources to leaders to improve their ability create, sustain, and institutionalize diversity and inclusion (D&I) behavior in their organizations. To truly realize the benefits from D&I activities, initiatives and programs, leaders must be prepared to address the challenges we face in the broadly diverse hospitality industry. For our students, this course is designed to build both a theoretical and practical understanding of how to manage the ever-evolving needs for D&I programs in the global hospitality industry.#
&HADM 4080 | Introduction to Casino Operations&
#Introduction to Casino Operations focuses primarily on the operation and ownership of US commercial casinos, and the hotels attached to them and Native American gambling. We will look at the historical development of gaming in America to understand how the industry has evolved to its present form. By the end of the course, students will understand the organizational structure of a casino hotel, how it operates and how it makes money. Students will also gain an understanding of the different companies involved in owning casino hotels and the current issues facing these companies.  We will look at casino marketing strategies and player rating systems. We will examine the social and economic impact of gaming and the various regulatory environments within which casinos operate. We will learn how common casino games are played as well as understand the mathematics of the various games. Students will build on their food and beverage and hotel knowledge to better understand the specific challenges facing casino hotel operators.#
&HADM 4110 | Negotiations in the Hospitality Industry&
#Negotiation is a critical factor in business success. This course provides hands-on experience in negotiation in the hospitality context. Through the use of role-play exercises, discussions, and writing exercises, students develop into tough negotiators with whom people will want to continue doing business. Students become more comfortable with negotiations and develop their own personal negotiating style. Students also learn how to adjust their negotiating style to respond appropriately to others' different personalities and negotiation tactics.#
&HADM 4115 | Managing Professional Relationships&
#Through lecture, experiential exercises, videos, and readings, students will prepare to be effective hospitality leaders by a) learning how to effectively build and maintain high quality relationships, b) developing an awareness of and strategies for managing relational challenges, and c) deriving a framework for building relational capability in an organization.#
&HADM 4130 | Entrepreneurial Management&
#This course addresses the issues faced by managers who wish to take a nascent idea and turn it into a viable organization that creates value, and empowers students to develop their own approaches, guidelines, and skills for being entrepreneurial managers.#
&HADM 4140 | Innovation and Corporate Renewal&
#Innovation is increasingly the source of sustainable competitive advantage for firms around the world. However, building an organization to successfully and repeatedly bring innovations to market has proven to be a challenge for many companies. This course explores the practices and processes that managers use to manage innovation effectively. This course also explores four aspects of innovation: exploring, executing, leveraging and renewing innovation.#
&HADM 4145 | Business Model Innovation and Design&
#The movement towards a service-based economy has coincided with a fundamental shift in technology and manufacturing ventures to a business model and plan in which the value proposition and customer experience has become central. As a result, the service component of products, based on the value they provide to consumers, has become dominant. Additionally, business modeling for service-based businesses is inherently different from for product or technology ventures. Students interested in starting service-based companies as well as those interested in developing service-based business models for technology and new product startups will find this course relevant and useful. This is an experientially based course. Students will be engaged in the process of business model and business plan development throughout the semester.#
&HADM 4190 | Key Drivers for Making Innovation Happen&
#Innovation and entrepreneurship are not just about creating new things. True innovation and entrepreneurship are about creating new value. The goal of this course is to set students up for success in adding new value to organizations, whether the organizations are established ones or new ones.
There are plenty of books and articles about innovation and entrepreneurship that contain a variety of frameworks and concepts. This course goes a step beyond that and highlights select key drivers for making innovation happen. It's a one-weekend course specifically focused on having and using (1) a "perspectives mindset" and (2) a process to identify and choose unconventional solutions. Additional shorter discussions will touch on being able to go from concept to creation (to value) and enrolling others in your innovation.
This interactive course includes the following elements:
• A mix of reading, cases, examples, exercises
• Actual tools that will be used in class and in real life
• Opportunities to engage in real-world situations
• Hands-on experience that you can apply to any situation to innovate and grow#
&HADM 4195 | The NYC Venture Capital Trek&
#This course is designed to introduce undergraduate students to the tech VC ecosystem in NYC from the perspective of actual venture capital investors. We will cover, at a high level, various aspects of how venture capitalists perform their multifaceted industry functions (for example, startup founder evaluation and relationships, due diligence, internal deal approval and selling process, and post investment portfolio company support). Students will also hear startup pitches and roll play as VCs, but these pitches will also include actual VCs to provide real time input and startup evaluation. Transportation: students will be required to travel to and from NYC on a chartered bus, which will leave Ithaca at approximately 4:30pm on Thursday, February 6th. There will be a teaching session on the bus on the way down to NYC. The bus will leave New York City and head back to Ithaca at approximately 1:30pm on Sunday, February 9th.
Class location: 570 Lexington Avenue, New York City.
Lodging: students are encouraged to stay at the Marriott Courtyard Hotel, which is very close to 570 Lexington Avenue. Students will be responsible for paying for their lodging using a reserved Cornell rate and booking link to be provided. The room block will consist of double occupancy (2 queen beds per room) and cost will be determined at a later date.
Meals: Breakfast and lunch will be provided on February 7th, 8th and 9th. Students will be responsible for other meals.
Course fee: a course fee of $120 will be charged to cover transportation and provided meals.
Financial Assistance: students who need financial assistance (subject to verification) should contact the professor by February 1, 2025.#
&HADM 4200 | Principles of Real Estate&
#This introduction to real estate finance and investment emphasizes developing valuation and decision-making skills. It introduces students to the business of real estate, including major roles, activities and players, terminology, and how the relevant financial tools, institutional concepts, and economic models are used in for sound investment decision-making in real estate.#
&HADM 4205 | Real Estate Financial Modeling&
#This course covers the basic financial models and frameworks used throughout the real estate industry today. In this introductory course, students will focus exclusively on a rigorous cash flow construction and scenario analysis to include the impact of deterministic inputs in ex-ante decision making. The course covers extensively the modeling of simple lease structures (for different property types), conventional and exotic debt instruments and simple equity waterfalls.#
&HADM 4270 | Fixed Income Analysis&
#This course provides an in-depth analysis of the concepts that are most often encountered in the market for fixed income securities. The goals of the course are threefold: (1) to develop the set of tools required to evaluate virtually any fixed income instrument; (2) to illustrate the mechanics and intuition of hedging and other trading and portfolio strategies; and (3) to explore the key features of both traditional and derivative fixed income instruments. The course focuses on topics that are most likely to have practical relevance for students, while helping students develop a theoretical and mathematical approach to valuation and risk management that will be useful in a wide range of financial applications.#
&HADM 4271 | Investment in Real Estate Securities and Funds&
#This course focuses on equity investment in commercial real estate through indirect vehicles. The course builds on standard investment and corporate finance concepts. The high-level learning objectives are to familiarize students with indirect real estate investment and to introduce the analytical tools required to value the firms in that sector.#
&HADM 4280 | Real Estate Finance and Investments&
#This course promotes sound real estate investment and finance decision making through the use of advanced theory and techniques in financial economics. Real estate investment decisions are made from applications of an extended version of the after-tax discounted cash flow model and other valuation models, including option pricing and regression models. Financing decisions are made using the techniques of modern financial analysis. A wide array of equity and debt financing options are considered including partnership agreements and commercial mortgages. Securitization of equity and debt claims to real estate also are covered. All types of income-producing residential and nonresidential real estate are analyzed, including hospitality properties.#
&HADM 4300 | Introduction to Wines&
#Students will be introduced to the major wine-producing regions of the world. The course focuses on understanding the terms on a wine label, discussing aromas and flavors and connecting flavors to the growing and productions factors that influence them. Food and wine pairing, wine etiquette and responsible consumption are also topics. This forms the basis for what a consumer needs to know to confidently navigate a wine list and to make sound purchase decisions in retail wine shops or online.#
&HADM 4310 | Wine and Food Pairing Principles and Promotion&
#Focuses on the pairing and creative marketing of wine and food. Students develop an understanding of regional and varietal wine styles, how food flavors can change a wine's flavor, and the promotion of wine and food. Topics include wine and food pairing principles, cuisines and their flavor components, food trends in restaurants and in the home, special event planning, and wine-list development. Students design and present wine and food tastings to industry guests.#
&HADM 4335 | Contemporary Issues in Food&
#This course intends to build awareness among the public regarding nutrition, food ethics, policy, insecurity, and sustainability. Sophisticated consumers and business operators are increasing the embrace of environmental health, customer health, and food sourcing. Students will explore the everchanging landscape of the food and beverage industry as seen through this societal lens. Discussion and lab topics include sustainable farming and consumer health needs, the power of food marketing, merchandising, and the "selling" of healthy menus in restaurants.#
&HADM 4350 | Selection, Procurement, and Supply Chain Management&
#This course deals with contemporary management issues related to procurement activities within the hospitality industry. Focus is on both the food distribution industry and the hospitality industry so that students understand the role the distributor plays in the movement of food and supplies from the producer to the hospitality operator and how the creation of distribution partnerships serves to improve efficiency and reduce costs. Topics include distribution channels and intermediaries in the supply chain, food distributor financial statement analysis, evaluation and selection of suppliers, development of buying strategies, influence of economic and environmental factors on supply, purchase timing and inventory management, the emerging role of the Internet, and e-procurement service providers.#
&HADM 4375 | Introduction to Fermented Grains, Hard Ciders, and Sake&
#The course will introduce students to fermented grain beverages and ciders from around the world. The class will explore basic production methods of the products. Demonstration of the proper way to examine the different products will be done through lecture and tastings.#
&HADM 4410 | Strategic Management&
#Strategic management integrates all of student's previous courses, including marketing, finance, accounting, operations, etc., and introduces them to new strategic management concepts. The course examines the total enterprise, the industry, and the competitive environment in which it operates. The goal is to develop a mastery of the analytical tools to perform analyses of the industry and competitors. The course focuses on how firms formulate, implement, and evaluate strategies. Using a case-based approach, the course emphasizes critical thinking and decision making to maintain competitive advantage in a hypercompetitive and maturing industry.#
&HADM 4425 | Introduction to the Global Leisure Cruise Industry&
#This course introduces students to the global leisure cruise industry—the economics, markets, and organizations that comprise the fastest-growing sector of the hospitality industry. Topics feature a conceptual grounding in cruise service management, including finance, strategic planning, demand and revenue management, marketing, distribution, hotel operations, marine operations, and human resource management, coupled with real-world application provided by executives from a leading company in the industry: Royal Caribbean Group. Students conduct integrative analyses that examine opportunities and challenges across the cruise industry.#
&HADM 4480 | Brand Management&
#Brands have become the central organizing principle of most hospitality organizations, guiding many decision and actions. This elective course addresses important brand management decisions faced by hospitality firms. Combining the latest in thought leadership on this topic with practical exercises and research presentations, you will learn how to manage a brand for increased customer engagement, market advantage and profitability. We will cover key elements of brand management via presentations on key concepts as well as reading and presenting brand management research to give you the skills to incorporate both industry practices and insight from empirical articles into your brand management toolkit.#
&HADM 4490 | Integrated Marketing Communication and Digital Media&
#This course delves into the dynamic field of marketing promotion with a focus on the hospitality and service industries. Building on theories and research from brand management, communications, consumer learning and information processing, and persuasion and attitude change, students will examine traditional promotions tools such as broadcast advertising, public relations, and direct marketing, as well as digital media tools such as search and website marketing, content marketing, social media, influencer marketing, experiential marketing, digital-direct, and programmatic advertising. The main course project is the development of an integrated marketing communications plan for a service organization. Students will also demonstrate their emerging knowledge through presentations on industry practices and essay exams focusing on the theories that guide marketing-communications strategy.#
&HADM 4500 | Sustainable Development&
#An advanced, experiential learning course in which students are primarily tasked to work directly with hospitality companies to solve real sustainability-related issues in the marketplace. Projects are related to the greening of current operations (operational), the refurbishment of existing assets and properties (brownfield), and the establishment of new businesses (Greenfield). The goal is to help students develop and refine critical analysis and decision-making skills related to hospitality management and sustainability through hands-on learning experiences. Short weekend practicum trip required.#
&HADM 4530 | Foodservice Facilities Design&
#This course introduces the basic concepts of foodservice facilities design and planning with an emphasis on restaurant kitchens. This course emphasizes general practices among foodservice facilities designers, including program development, product and workflow, equipment selection, architectural and engineering considerations, and project management. A brief introduction to computer-aided design software will be provided. Students will learn to conceptualize, plan, and create a design for a medium-size restaurant kitchen and front-of-house service areas.#
&HADM 4620 | Intercultural Communication in Global Business&
#Designed to help managers develop proficiency when communicating among and between people who do not share similar cultural assumptions. Students can expect to learn communication variables that differ among cultural groups, including the use of eye contact, body language, personal space, hierarchy, and time. Additional topics include persuasion and negotiation across cultures and the ethics of communication in international business. Students learn through a blend of theory and practice. Activities include lectures, guided discussions, group projects, student and guest speaker presentations, and analysis of specific cross-cultural managerial challenges, with an emphasis on the service industry.#
&HADM 4650 | Impactful Unscripted Communication Practicum&
#The course teaches advanced business public speaking skills for business and hospitality contexts.  It includes a series of workshops, individual and small group coaching, and ongoing instructor and peer critiques.  The course materials and projects build on the speaking skills introduced in HADM 1650 and help students further master audience awareness, flexibility, and adaptability to various media and emerging contexts such as video interviews and virtual meetings.#
&HADM 4750 | Machine Learning for Business and Hospitality Applications&
#The world is becoming increasingly data driven. In this context, the ability to leverage machine learning techniques to extract value from data is vital across many businesses, including the hospitality industry. This course is designed to meet the emerging need of this sector. This course aims to convey core principles of machine learning and hands-on applications of on solving real business problems. This course emphasizes on how to draw managerial insights and support business decisions from data. The methods that would be covered include linear regression, logistic regression, classification trees, clustering, and neural networks. This course also explains concepts including bias-variance trade-off, model interpretability, cross-validation, prescriptive analytics, and ethical concerns of machine learning.#
&HADM 4760 | Visual Basic for Applications: End-User Programming&
#This is an introductory programming course for end-users (e.g., business managers and consultants). Students develop fluency in the popular Visual Basic for Applications (VBA) language. Using VBA, students learn how to customize and extend the Microsoft Office Suite, with an emphasis on Excel. They also develop custom information systems using Microsoft Office applications as programmable building blocks. Secondary objectives of the course are to cover fundamental design and programming principles. The course is entirely lab-based.#
&HADM 4770 | Advanced Business Modeling&
#This course is taught in a 'flipped' environment. It focuses on organizational systems, planning, and the decision process and how information is used for decision support in organizations. Students are provided with practical skills in developing spreadsheet computer models using Microsoft Excel. Topics include business planning and forecasting, numerical methods, advanced formulas and functions, user-interface design, data protection and validation, importing external data, and output presentation.#
&HADM 4800 | Law for Entrepreneurs&
#An analysis of key legal issues that a startup or growing business must address, including: (i) choosing type of business entity, (ii) proper establishment and utilization of corporate boards of directors, (iii) sources of capital and understanding capitalization structures (common stock, preferred stock, warrants, etc.) (iv) use of stock options as employee incentives, (v) protecting confidential information and inventions, (vi) fundamental employment practices, (vii) negotiating relationships with landlords, distributors, resellers and customers; and (viii) secured transactions and basic debtor-creditor law.#
&HADM 4870 | Real Estate Law&
#This course provides students with an understanding of the legal issues surrounding the ownership, transfer, and use and development of real estate. Students will learn to recognize and evaluate legal issues in order to inform the decision-making process with respect to real estate, whether as a business executive, an entrepreneur, or in personal life.#
&HADM 4910 | Hotel Ezra Cornell (H.E.C.)&
#For 100 years, Hotel Ezra Cornell has been an essential part of the Cornell Nolan School of Hotel Administration, allowing students the opportunity to put theory into practice while taking on the leadership responsibility for this student-run hospitality showcase.  Through participation on the Board of Directors, students practice the complexities of leading and managing individuals, teams and the organization as well as growing their leadership skills through experiential learning. Critical course outcomes include applying fundamental business principles to plan, organize, staff, direct, and financially control the weekend-long HEC conference; leading a diverse team of students and volunteers through understanding individual differences, leveraging conflict management and applying team-based problem-solving techniques; preparing and presenting professional-quality written and oral communications; and critically assessing personal strengths and development needs through the experiential learning process. Board members receive credit for their participation in HEC: Students earn 3 credits toward HADM electives. Any additional credits will be applied to free electives. Students interested in running for board positions in the spring must be in good academic standing with a minimum GPA of 2.5. Eligibility requirements for specific board positions can be obtained from the HEC Office (G75 Statler Hall) and will be distributed to the student body after the previous years' conference. Students interested in a board position are encouraged to discuss their intentions with the HEC course instructor#
&HADM 4965 | Business Plan Competition&
#The Cornell Hospitality Business Plan Competition is an annual entrepreneurship event that begins at the start of the academic year when students form teams and develop business idea pitches, that are judged based upon the clarity, substantiation, and marketability of their business idea. Up to ten (10) teams will be selected to compete as semi-finalists based on the quality of the pitch and will move forward to the next round, which involves the creation of a complete business plan. Those teams selected will be offered permission codes for enrollment.#
&HADM 4970 | Distinction in Research Course I&
#No description available.#
&HADM 4980 | Special Studies Project II&
#Students have the option of conducting a special studies project in any academic area of the School of Hotel Administration. Projects are conducted under the direction of a SHA faculty member, and regular, frequent consultations are mandatory.#
&HADM 4990 | Special Studies Project I&
#Students have the option of conducting a special studies project in any academic area of the School of Hotel Administration. Projects are conducted under the direction of a SHA faculty member, and regular, frequent consultations are mandatory.#
&HADM 5121 | Experiential Networking II&
#This course is a continuation of HADM 5120. In this interactive course, students will learn the different types and ways to network, how to create their own personal branding statement, best practices on how to reach out to someone you have not met before, ways to master the basics of video communications, and how to share and utilize their networks. This course expands student life and networking skills to add value and grow their knowledge, interpersonal/people skills, and experience to succeed in business and life.#
&HADM 5365 | Foodservice Management Essentials&
#This course in an introduction to the principles of foodservice operations management, beginning with an overview of the foodservice industry at large. We first focus on major industry segments, business practices, and trends. More consideration is subsequently given to the components of the foodservice system: creating useful financial statements, elements/use of a business plan, marketing, menu design/planning, facilities/production, human resource issues, purchasing/controls, and quality assurance. This fundamental understanding of operations and basic managerial responsibilities will set the stage for further exploration of these issues in subsequent Nolan courses.#
&HADM 5760 | Visual Basic for Applications: End-User Programming&
#This is an introductory programming course for end-users (e.g., business managers and consultants). Students develop fluency in the popular Visual Basic for Applications (VBA) language. Using VBA, students learn how to customize and extend the Microsoft Office Suite, with an emphasis on Excel. They also develop custom information systems using Microsoft Office applications as programmable building blocks. Secondary objectives of the course are to cover fundamental design and programming principles. The course is entirely lab-based.#
&HADM 6011 | Data-Driven Analytics&
#The practice of business is changing. Due to increasing desktop computing power and companies amassing large amounts of data, business decisions are becoming more and more data based. This holds in many sectors such as in internet marketing and online retailing where the only interaction with the customer is in digital form. This course aims at conveying some core principles of data driven decision making. This course is very hands-on and emphasis will be placed on solving real business cases, using real data via advanced spreadsheet enabled models and visulaizations.#
&HADM 6055 | Hospitality, Health and Design Industry Immersion Seminar&
#This course provides students the opportunity to learn directly from invited industry speakers with expertise in a spectrum of industries that link health, wellness, senior living with hospitality and design.  The speakers share their views on business, managerial, career, and other critical industry-related issues.#
&HADM 6080 | Introduction to Casino Operations&
#Introduction to Casino Operations focuses primarily on the operation and ownership of US commercial casinos, and the hotels attached to them and Native American gambling. We will look at the historical development of gaming in America to understand how the industry has evolved to its present form. By the end of the course, students will understand the organizational structure of a casino hotel, how it operates and how it makes money. Students will also gain an understanding of the different companies involved in owning casino hotels and the current issues facing these companies.  We will look at casino marketing strategies and player rating systems. We will examine the social and economic impact of gaming and the various regulatory environments within which casinos operate. We will learn how common casino games are played as well as understand the mathematics of the various games. Students will build on their food and beverage and hotel knowledge to better understand the specific challenges facing casino hotel operators.#
&HADM 6110 | Negotiations in the Hospitality Industry&
#Negotiation is a critical factor in business success. This course provides hands-on experience in negotiation in the hospitality context. Through the use of role-play exercises, discussions, and writing exercises, students develop into tough negotiators with whom people will want to continue doing business. Students become more comfortable with negotiations and develop their own personal negotiating style. Students also learn how to adjust their negotiating style to respond appropriately to others' different personalities and negotiation tactics.#
&HADM 6115 | Managing Professional Relationships&
#Through lecture, experiential exercises, videos, and readings, students will prepare to be effective hospitality leaders by a) learning how to effectively build and maintain high quality relationships, b) developing an awareness of and strategies for managing relational challenges, and c) deriving a framework for building relational capability in an organization.#
&HADM 6130 | Entrepreneurial Management&
#This course addresses the issues faced by managers who wish to take a nascent idea and turn it into a viable organization that creates value, and empowers students to develop their own approaches, guidelines, and skills for being entrepreneurial managers.#
&HADM 6140 | Innovation and Corporate Renewal&
#Innovation is increasingly the source of sustainable competitive advantage for firms around the world. However, building an organization to successfully and repeatedly bring innovations to market has proven to be a challenge for many companies. This course explores the practices and processes that managers use to manage innovation effectively. This course also explores four aspects of innovation: exploring, executing, leveraging and renewing innovation.#
&HADM 6145 | Business Model Innovation and Design&
#The movement towards a service-based economy has coincided with a fundamental shift in technology and manufacturing ventures to a business model and plan in which the value proposition and customer experience has become central. As a result, the service component of products, based on the value they provide to consumers, has become dominant. Additionally, business modeling for service-based businesses is inherently different from for product or technology ventures. Students interested in starting service-based companies as well as those interested in developing service-based business models for technology and new product startups will find this course relevant and useful. This is an experientially based course. Students will be engaged in the process of business model and business plan development throughout the semester.#
&HADM 6190 | Key Drivers for Making Innovation Happen&
#Innovation and entrepreneurship are not just about creating new things. True innovation and entrepreneurship are about creating new value. The goal of this course is to set students up for success in adding new value to organizations, whether the organizations are established ones or new ones.
There are plenty of books and articles about innovation and entrepreneurship that contain a variety of frameworks and concepts. This course goes a step beyond that and highlights select key drivers for making innovation happen. It's a one-weekend course specifically focused on having and using (1) a "perspectives mindset" and (2) a process to identify and choose unconventional solutions. Additional shorter discussions will touch on being able to go from concept to creation (to value) and enrolling others in your innovation.
This interactive course includes the following elements:
• A mix of reading, cases, examples, exercises
• Actual tools that will be used in class and in real life
• Opportunities to engage in real-world situations
• Hands-on experience that you can apply to any situation to innovate and grow#
&HADM 6200 | Principles of Real Estate&
#This introduction to real estate finance and investment emphasizes developing valuation and decision-making skills. It introduces students to the business of real estate, both residential and commercial real estate, including roles, activities and players, terminology, and how the tools, concepts, and models in real estate are used in decision making. The objectives of this course are twofold: (1) to help students develop an understanding of real estate fundamentals; and (2) to introduce students to the quantitative aspects of real estate-investment decision making, valuation under uncertainty, and mortgage financing.#
&HADM 6205 | Real Estate Financial Modeling&
#This course covers the basic financial models and frameworks used throughout the real estate industry today. In this introductory course, students will focus exclusively on a rigorous cash flow construction and scenario analysis to include the impact of deterministic inputs in ex-ante decision making. The course covers extensively the modeling of simple lease structures (for different property types), conventional and exotic debt instruments and simple equity waterfalls.#
&HADM 6206 | Real Estate Financial Modeling&
#This course covers the basic financial models and frameworks used throughout the real estate industry today. In this introductory course, students will focus exclusively on a rigorous cash flow construction and scenario analysis to include the impact of deterministic inputs in ex-ante decision making. The course covers extensively the modeling of simple lease structures (for different property types), conventional and exotic debt instruments and simple equity waterfalls.#
&HADM 6270 | Fixed Income Analysis&
#This course provides an in-depth analysis of the concepts that are most often encountered in the market for fixed income securities. The goals of the course are threefold: (1) to develop the set of tools required to evaluate virtually any fixed income instrument; (2) to illustrate the mechanics and intuition of hedging and other trading and portfolio strategies; and (3) to explore the key features of both traditional and derivative fixed income instruments. The course focuses on topics that are most likely to have practical relevance for students, while helping students develop a theoretical and mathematical approach to valuation and risk management that will be useful in a wide range of financial applications.#
&HADM 6271 | Investment in Real Estate Securities and Funds&
#This course focuses on equity investment in commercial real estate through indirect vehicles. The course builds on standard investment and corporate finance concepts. The high-level learning objectives are to familiarize students with indirect real estate investment and to introduce the analytical tools required to value the firms in that sector.#
&HADM 6280 | Real Estate Finance and Investments&
#This course promotes sound real estate investment and finance decision making through the use of advanced theory and techniques in financial economics. Real estate investment decisions are made from applications of an extended version of the after-tax discounted cash flow model and other valuation models, including option pricing and regression models. Financing decisions are made using the techniques of modern financial analysis. A wide array of equity and debt financing options are considered including partnership agreements and commercial mortgages. Securitization of equity and debt claims to real estate also are covered. All types of income-producing residential and nonresidential real estate are analyzed, including hospitality properties.#
&HADM 6335 | Contemporary Issues in Food&
#This course intends to build awareness among the public regarding nutrition, food ethics, policy, insecurity, and sustainability. Sophisticated consumers and business operators are increasing the embrace of environmental health, customer health, and food sourcing. Students will explore the everchanging landscape of the food and beverage industry as seen through this societal lens. Discussion and lab topics include sustainable farming and consumer health needs, the power of food marketing, merchandising, and the "selling" of healthy menus in restaurants.#
&HADM 6350 | Selection, Procurement and Supply Chain Management&
#This course deals with contemporary management issues related to procurement activities within the hospitality industry. Focus is on both the food distribution industry and the hospitality industry so that students understand the role the distributor plays in the movement of food and supplies from the producer to the hospitality operator and how the creation of distribution partnerships serves to improve efficiency and reduce costs. Topics include distribution channels and intermediaries in the supply chain, food distributor financial statement analysis, evaluation and selection of suppliers, development of buying strategies, influence of economic and environmental factors on supply, purchase timing and inventory management, the emerging role of the Internet, and e-procurement service providers.#
&HADM 6375 | Introduction to Fermented Grains, Hard Ciders, and Sake&
#The course will introduce students to fermented grain beverages and ciders from around the world. The class will explore basic production methods of the products. Demonstration of the proper way to examine the different products will be done through lecture and tastings.#
&HADM 6390 | Operational Analysis for Foodservice Management&
#This course requires that students analyze and interpret financial statements such as income statements, balance sheets, and statements of cash flow and use their analyses to solve problems presented in case studies.  Additional analyses involve the examination and interpretation of guest satisfaction data, employee performance data, pricing strategies, and margin analysis.#
&HADM 6425 | Introduction to the Global Leisure Cruise Industry&
#This course introduces students to the global leisure cruise industry—the economics, markets, and organizations that comprise the fastest-growing sector of the hospitality industry. Topics feature a conceptual grounding in cruise service management, including finance, strategic planning, demand and revenue management, marketing, distribution, hotel operations, marine operations, and human resource management, coupled with real-world application provided by executives from a leading company in the industry: Royal Caribbean Group. Students conduct integrative analyses that examine opportunities and challenges across the cruise industry.#
&HADM 6470 | Consumer Behavior&
#Helps students become better at understanding, predicting, and influencing consumer behavior. Topics include motivation, perception, learning, decision making, attitudes, persuasion, compliance, geodemographics, and psychographics. The practical implications of psychological principles are emphasized. Specific applications involve such areas as guest frequency programs, menu design, promotional strategy, personal selling, sales and marketing planning, and marketing research. Class time is used for discussions and application exercises as well as for the presentation of relevant information.#
&HADM 6480 | Brand Management&
#Brands have become the central organizing principle of most hospitality organizations, guiding many decision and actions. This elective course addresses important brand management decisions faced by hospitality firms. Combining the latest in thought leadership on this topic with practical exercises and research presentations, you will learn how to manage a brand for increased customer engagement, market advantage and profitability. We will cover key elements of brand management via presentations on key concepts as well as reading and presenting brand management research to give you the skills to incorporate both industry practices and insight from empirical articles into your brand management toolkit.#
&HADM 6481 | Brand Management&
#Brands have become the central organizing principle of most hospitality organizations, guiding every decision and every action. This course addresses important brand management decisions faced by hospitality firms. Combining the latest in thought leadership on this topic with practical exercises, case studies, and guest speakers you will learn how to manage a brand for increased customer engagement, market advantage and profitability. We will cover key elements of brand management via presentations on key concepts, reading and discussing seminal brand management research, insights from guest speakers, and discussing hospitality brand case studies. Learning is assessed via in-class contributions, analysis of cases, and a final research paper.#
&HADM 6490 | Integrated Marketing Communication and Digital Media&
#This course delves into the dynamic field of marketing promotion with a focus on the hospitality and service industries. Building on theories and research from brand management, communications, consumer learning and information processing, and persuasion and attitude change, students will examine traditional promotions tools such as broadcast advertising, public relations, and direct marketing, as well as digital media tools such as search and website marketing, content marketing, social media, influencer marketing, experiential marketing, digital-direct, and programmatic advertising. The main course project is the development of an integrated marketing communications plan for a service organization. Students will also demonstrate their emerging knowledge through presentations on industry practices and essay exams focusing on the theories that guide marketing-communications strategy.#
&HADM 6500 | Sustainable Development&
#An advanced, experiential learning course in which students are primarily tasked to work directly with hospitality companies to solve real sustainability-related issues in the marketplace. Projects are related to the greening of current operations (operational), the refurbishment of existing assets and properties (brownfield), and the establishment of new businesses (Greenfield). The goal is to help students develop and refine critical analysis and decision-making skills related to hospitality management and sustainability through hands-on learning experiences. Short weekend practicum trip required.#
&HADM 6510 | Hospitality Facilities Design&
#This intensive studio course provides the graphic skills necessary for design and experience in applying these skills in hospitality planning and design. Using hand drafting skills learned in class, students prepare design projects including design of guest rooms, guest room floors and public space and back-of-house functions.  In addition to studio critiques, the course includes in-class discussions of site analysis, target markets, architectural choices and the use of inspirational precedents.#
&HADM 6530 | Foodservice Facilities Design&
#This course introduces the basic concepts of foodservice facilities design and planning with an emphasis on restaurant kitchens. This course emphasizes general practices among foodservice facilities designers, including program development, product and workflow, equipment selection, architectural and engineering considerations, and project management. A brief introduction to computer-aided design software will be provided. Students will learn to conceptualize, plan, and create a design for a medium-size restaurant kitchen and front-of-house service areas.#
&HADM 6610 | Communication for Entrepreneurs&
#Communication skills are essential for entrepreneurs. Entrepreneurs face unique communication challenges when communicating with initial investors, business partners, founding employees, first customers, and the media. Students will apply course concepts to their own ideas while developing communication competencies in a variety of entrepreneurial communication contexts.#
&HADM 6611 | Impactful Unscripted Communication&
#This course provides students with a foundation on how improving everyday communication can make speaking skills more impactful. Students will explore how to set up their message while considering its purpose, its context, and its audience. Keep in mind that this is not about speechwriting but about crafting an unscripted message. Students will then practice these skills in front of real people to test their ability to deliver their message in applicable environments. Students will explore what it's like to adapt that message to different surroundings and challenges. They will also develop emotional intelligence skills as you navigate how to better gauge your audience's reaction. Professor Wolfe will demonstrate how applying these concepts will make your messages resonate, from a routine low-stakes situation to a formal pitch that affects their career goals.#
&HADM 6620 | Intercultural Communication in Global Business&
#Designed to help managers develop proficiency when communicating among and between people who do not share similar cultural assumptions. Students can expect to learn communication variables that differ among cultural groups, including the use of eye contact, body language, personal space, hierarchy, and time. Additional topics include persuasion and negotiation across cultures and the ethics of communication in international business. Students learn through a blend of theory and practice. Activities include lectures, guided discussions, group projects, student and guest speaker presentations, and analysis of specific cross-cultural managerial challenges, with an emphasis on the service industry.#
&HADM 6650 | Impactful Unscripted Communication Practicum&
#The course teaches advanced business public speaking skills for business and hospitality contexts.  It includes a series of workshops, individual and small group coaching, and ongoing instructor and peer critiques.  The course materials and projects build on the speaking skills introduced in HADM 7610 and help students further master audience awareness, flexibility, and adaptability to various media and emerging contexts such as video interviews and virtual meetings.#
&HADM 6670 | Persuasive and Ethical Communication&
#This course will help you to develop the knowledge and skill as a future organizational leader to address persuasive and real ethical communication challenges. It focuses on the art of applying persuasion theory and principles to a range of diverse leadership and communication contexts.#
&HADM 6740 | Fundamentals of Database Management and Data Analysis&
#Prepares students to create and manage information in a knowledge-based organization. Students learn to design and use database tools  to perform analyses and to make decisions in today's information-rich business environment. The course provides both theoretical and practical perspectives of database design and administration, with a focus on application. To manage this balance, students first gain a foundation of database concepts from lecture and course readings, and subsequently apply these fundamentals through various projects and assignments. Topics include information and information management in organizations; fundamentals of relational database design and implementation; writing and running SQL queries; working in database design teams and as individual research analysts; database design and management using Microsoft Access; database normalization; data-driven decision making; conversion of data into information and knowledge that can be leveraged to achieve business objectives; the role of data and information management in contemporary society; and data management opportunities in the hospitality industry.#
&HADM 6750 | Machine Learning for Business and Hospitality Applications&
#The world is becoming increasingly data driven. In this context, the ability to leverage machine learning techniques to extract value from data is vital across many businesses, including the hospitality industry. This course is designed to meet the emerging need of this sector. This course aims to convey core principles of machine learning and hands-on applications of on solving real business problems. This course emphasizes on how to draw managerial insights and support business decisions from data. The methods that would be covered include linear regression, logistic regression, classification trees, clustering, and neural networks. This course also explains concepts including bias-variance trade-off, model interpretability, cross-validation, prescriptive analytics, and ethical concerns of machine learning.#
&HADM 6770 | Advanced Business Modeling&
#This class is taught in a 'flipped' environment. It focuses on organizational systems, planning, and the decision process and how information is used for decision support in organizations. Students are provided with practical skills in developing spreadsheet computer models using Microsoft Excel. Topics include: business planning and forecasting, numerical methods, advanced formulas and functions, user-interface design, data protection and validation, importing external data, and output presentation.#
&HADM 6800 | Law for Entrepreneurs&
#An analysis of key legal issues that a startup or growing business must address, including: (i) choosing type of business entity, (ii) proper establishment and utilization of corporate boards of directors, (iii) sources of capital and understanding capitalization structures (common stock, preferred stock, warrants, etc.) (iv) use of stock options as employee incentives, (v) protecting confidential information and inventions, (vi) fundamental employment practices, (vii) negotiating relationships with landlords, distributors, resellers and customers; and (viii) secured transactions and basic debtor-creditor law.#
&HADM 6870 | Real Estate Law&
#This course provides students with an understanding of the legal issues surrounding the ownership, transfer, and use and development of real estate. Students will learn to recognize and evaluate legal issues in order to inform the decision-making process with respect to real estate, whether as a business executive, an entrepreneur, or in personal life.#
&HADM 6965 | Business Plan Competition&
#The Cornell Hospitality Business Plan Competition is an annual entrepreneurship event that begins at the start of the academic year when students form teams and develop business idea pitches, that are judged based upon the clarity, substantiation, and marketability of their business idea. Up to ten (10) teams will be selected to compete as semi-finalists based on the quality of the pitch and will move forward to the next round, which involves the creation of a complete business plan. Those teams selected will be offered permission codes for enrollment.#
&HADM 6980 | Graduate Special Studies Project II&
#Each student must have in mind a project and obtain agreement from an individual faculty member to oversee and direct the study. Written permission is required before course enrollment. Permission forms are available in the Office of Student Services, 180 Statler Hall.#
&HADM 7030 | Operations Management&
#The purpose of this course is to introduce "world-class" service operations management concepts and approaches for the hospitality industry. This core course focuses on understanding levers for structuring, managing, and improving a firm's recurring business processes to achieve a competitive advantage in customer responsiveness, price, quality, and variety of products and services in the hospitality industry.
Processes within firms, as well as between firms, i.e. supply chains, are explored. The fundamental principles underlying state-of-the-art practices are explored so that students learn to critically evaluate these and other operational improvement programs, as well as develop their own operational improvements.
Students learn how to manage and improve the operations of a firm, and how operational issues affect and are affected by the many business decisions they will be called upon to make or recommend in their careers.
As such, this course is essential to the participants working/aspiring to work in hospitality consulting, entrepreneurs, or general managers. Working knowledge of operations is also indispensable to those working/aspiring to work in marketing, finance, and accounting, where the interface between these functions and operations is critical. Finally, an understanding of how firms become market leaders through operations is important in investment careers.#
&HADM 7090 | Introduction to Hospitality&
#No description available.#
&HADM 7144 | Competitive Strategies for the Hospitality Industry&
#Examines competitive strategies, cooperative strategies, and growth strategies within the hospitality industries and beyond. The goal is to develop a mastery of the strategic issues facing hospitality as well as important new qualitative tools to perform analyses. Using a case-based approach, the course focuses not only on hospitality but on other industries as well, allowing for thinking "outside the box" and development of novel solutions not possible by studying only hospitality. The course integrates knowledge from all previous M.M.H. courses including marketing, finance, organizational behavior, and human resources.#
&HADM 7240 | Managerial Accounting&
#This course moves on from traditional GAAP to using accounting standards for hospitality. The Uniform System of Accounts for the Lodging Industry (USALI) is the standard for hotel accounting practices. USALI is not taught in many schools as it is specific to hotels/lodging industry. This course allows for significant benchmarking between hotels/lodging units to understand how your hotel is performing against competition. All cases and examples are from the lodging industry. Students in this course will not perform the role of accountants; they will use sample data routinely provided by accountants to hotel owners, operators, and general managers so that they can practice making sound business decisions based on the information in the financial documents.#
&HADM 7510 | Properties Development and Planning&
#This course serves as an overview of hospitality project development and planning from the perspective of an owner and manager. Students learn about the role of the development team, feasibility studies, space programming, construction and renovation management, and functional and design criteria for hotels and restaurants. Teams will prepare program documentation for a new lodging property or concept.#
&HADM 7820 | Human Resources Management&
#This graduate-level course covers the strategies that enable companies to attract, develop, and retain high-quality employees, which include selection, compensation, performance appraisal, and career management. In each of these areas, the focus is on the return on the human-resource investment.#
&HADM 7900 | Cornell-Peking MMH/MBA Dual-Degree Program&
#No description available.#
&HADM 7950 | MMH Master Class&
#The MMH Master Class is a multi-day immersion seminar held at the site of a leading hospitality firm, such as a hotel, resort, or cruise line. Students solve problems based on real-life scenarios facing the host organization and present their solutions to industry leaders and the Hotel School faculty member(s) who accompany them.#
&HADM 7960 | Seminar in Leadership, Diversity, and Inclusion&
#Diversity and inclusion is on everyone's mind. We all know that together, we have to do a better job providing tools and resources to leaders to improve their ability create, sustain, and institutionalize diversity and inclusion (D&I) behavior in their organizations. To truly realize the benefits from D&I activities, initiatives and programs, leaders must be prepared to address the challenges we face in the broadly diverse hospitality industry. For our students, this course is designed to build both a theoretical and practical understanding of how to manage the ever-evolving needs for D&I programs in the global hospitality industry.#
&HADM 8900 | M.S. Thesis Research&
#Thesis research for master's students.#
&HADM 9900 | Ph.D. Thesis Research&
#Thesis research for Ph.D. candidates.#


$HD | Human Development$
&HD 2090 | Developmental Psychology&
#One of four introductory courses in cognition and perception. A comprehensive introduction to current thinking and research in developmental psychology that approaches topics from both psychobiological and cognitive perspectives. We will use a comparative approach to assess principles of development change. The course focuses on the development of perception, action, cognition, language, and social understanding in infancy and early childhood.#
&HD 2170 | Adolescence and Emerging Adulthood&
#HD 2170 introduces students to the major theoretical perspectives, research findings, research methods, applications, and controversies in the study of human development during the period of adolescence and the transition to emerging adulthood. The main focus is on individual development, but we view this development from an interdisciplinary perspective. The emphasis in the course is on psychological development, but we also will draw on related fields, such as sociology, anthropology, biology, neuroscience, and education. Within psychology, we will be looking at adolescence and emerging adulthood from the standpoints of developmental, cognitive, social, personality, clinical, and biological psychology. There will be some use of statistics in the course, but sophisticated knowledge of statistics is not required. This is a second-level course, so the emphasis is on creative, analytical, practical, and wise understanding and application of concepts of development.#
&HD 2310 | How the Brain Makes the Mind&
#There is no getting away from the brain. Everything a person does, creates, thinks, feels, believes, and experiences (including making sense of course descriptions!) depends on it. But, how? How could a three pound mass of cells and the body in which it exists "see," "decide," or "remember," let alone navigate a busy city, play soccer, or write poetry? This course will provide students with the foundational concepts and tools they will need to begin to address these questions, providing insight into how modern cognitive neuroscientists understand the brain, how it works, and how the mind emerges from all of this. Students will learn core principles of modern human cognitive neuroscience (e.g., brain structure versus function, connectivity, reuse) and their application to cognition (e.g., action, perception, attention, memory, emotion, language, cognitive control, and consciousness). Topics in neuroanatomy, human neuroscience methods, and neurological conditions will also be covered.#
&HD 2650 | Psychology and Law&
#This course explores how cognitive, social & clinical psychology are used in law. Law makes many assumptions about human psychology, and lawyers and judges regularly rely on psychological research in their cases. The course examines the psychology underlying criminal confessions; children's testimony; the insanity defense; risk assessment; judge and jury decision making; criminal punishment; constitutional law; and common law (tort, contract, and property) disputes. The course assesses the use and misuse of psychology in these subjects.#
&HD 2810 | Introduction to Social Psychology&
#Introduction to research and theory in social psychology. Topics include social influence, persuasion, and attitude change; culture, social interaction and group phenomena; evolution, altruism, and aggression; stereotyping, prejudice and discrimination; everyday reasoning and judgment.#
&HD 2940 | Data Science for Social Scientists II&
#This is a course on applications of data science in social science using R. We will cover fundamentals of statistical and causal inference, exploratory data analysis and data reduction, supervised learning, and recent, prominent applications of machine learning in social science.#
&HD 3110 | Educational Psychology&
#Educational psychology is the application of psychological principles and concepts to cases of teaching and learning. We study behavioral, cognitive, embodied, and social-cultural perspectives on learning and thinking, and we use them in planning and reflecting on weekly fieldwork outside the classroom. In the process, we become more mindful and skilled learners ourselves and better facilitators of others' learning.#
&HD 3150 | Language and Power&
#In this course, we will explore how language interacts with power: how does language reflect, shape, threaten and reinforce power relations in human society? From childhood through old age, language is an ever-present source of symbolic power. We use it to develop and express our identities, to position ourselves in hierarchies, and to establish group membership and exclusion throughout life. Language shapes ourselves, our families, our social lives, and our institutions. Understanding how people use language can provide a window into hidden aspects of both individuals and the social world.#
&HD 3220 | Hormones and Behavior&
#Covers comparative and evolutionary approaches to the study of the relationship between peripheral hormones and neuroendocrine mechanisms in vertebrates, including humans, with sexual behavior, affiliative bonds and social grouping, parental behavior, aggression, mating systems, stress, learning and memory, and biological rhythms.#
&HD 3290 | Self-regulation Across the Life Span&
#Covers the science of self-regulation and its development over the human life span. After providing an overview of historical perspectives, the class will focus on contemporary research including homeostasis in bodily systems, self-control and regulation, goal setting, economic perspectives, as well as the role of emotions and personality.#
&HD 3300 | Developmental Psychopathology&
#Why do some children grow up well-adjusted and others do not? This course applies a developmental framework to understanding psychological disorders. We will consider the common disorders of childhood and adolescence; the individual contexts which promote risk versus resiliency; trends and trajectories in disorders over time; and the complex ethical issues associated with the diagnosis and treatment of disorders early in life.#
&HD 3320 | Gender and Psychopathology&
#This course will examine the ways in which sex and gender impact the expression of severe psychopathology. We will try to understand these relationships using different levels of analysis. This will involve an exploration of biological, psychological, cognitive, and social factors associated with sex and gender as they influence the epidemiology, phenomenology, etiology, diagnosis, and course of illness in major forms of psychopathology: specifically, schizophrenia, major affective illness, anxiety disorders, eating disorders, and personality disorders. We will examine these topics through the frameworks of psychological science, feminism, and intersectionality, and attempt to integrate the offerings of each, to generate a nuanced understanding of mental illness.#
&HD 3455 | On Being Social&
#Humans are said to be "social animals." This seminar provides an in-depth exploration of what it means to be social. Examples of topics to be covered include the fundamental need to belong and the affiliative system underlying cooperation; attachment and the proclivity to form strong affective ties throughout the life span; the biological bases of attraction and relationship formation; and the various consequences of thwarted relational needs, including the end of relationships through break-up, divorce, or death, and social alienation and chronic loneliness. We will focus on people's most intimate relationships – with partners, parents, and close friends – but will explore how our social nature is expressed in diverse ways – with unknown others, in social networks, and with political leaders, celebrities, and objects. These topics will be considered from diverse theoretical perspectives including work from social neuroscience, social, personality, developmental, cognitive, and evolutionary psychology, as well as drawing from work in communications, information science, sociology, and political science. Articles will be a combination of theoretical, review, or perspective pieces as well as empirical papers.#
&HD 3490 | The Science of Well-Being&
#Takes a comprehensive look at current research and theory in the emerging field of Positive Psychology. Students become familiar with theories, methods, and empirical research pertaining to the psychology of human strengths, virtues, abilities, and talents.#
&HD 3620 | Human Bonding&
#Covers the science of interpersonal relationships. Examines the basic nature of human affectional bonds, including their functions and dynamics. Covers such topics as interpersonal attraction and mate selection, intimacy and commitment, love and sex, jealousy and loneliness, the neurobiology of affiliation and attachment, and the role of relationships in physical and psychological health.#
&HD 3700 | Adult Psychopathology&
#A theoretical and empirical approach to the biological, psychological, and social (including cultural and historical) aspects of adult psychopathology. Readings range from Freud to topics in psychopharmacology. The major mental illnesses are covered, including schizophrenia as well as mood, anxiety, and personality disorders. Childhood disorders are not covered.#
&HD 4000 | Directed Readings&
#For study that predominantly involves library research and independent study.#
&HD 4010 | Empirical Research&
#For study that predominantly involves data collection and analysis or laboratory or studio projects.#
&HD 4020 | Supervised Fieldwork&
#For study that involves both responsible participation in a community setting and reflection on that experience through discussion, reading, and writing. Academic credit is awarded for this integration of theory and practice.#
&HD 4030 | Teaching Assistantship&
#For study that includes assisting faculty with instruction.#
&HD 4230 | Research on Children's and Adult's Testimony&
#No description available.#
&HD 4310 | Mind, Self, and Emotion&
#No description available.#
&HD 4560 | Black Girlhood Studies: Rememory, Representation, and Re-Imagination&
#How has history shaped our notion of Black girlhood? What is our collective understanding of Black girlhood? How do we see and understand Black girls? Black Girlhood Studies is a multidisciplinary field that draws on education, literature, psychological, and sociological perspectives as tools to see and honor Black girls' lived experiences. In this seminar course, we will use a mixture of lectures and facilitated discussions to provide an overview of Black girlhood as it relates to historical and current-day social, political, and cultural constructions of Black girlhood within and beyond the United States. We will also interrogate how Black girls deconstruct and interrupt these social constructions by engaging in scholarly works, popular press articles, poetry, music, film, and novels. Throughout the course, we will make space to imagine a world where Black girls' ways of knowing, being, and experiencing the world are honored.#
&HD 4600 | Professional Development in Geriatric and Palliative Research&
#This course serves as a companion class for students admitted to the Geriatric Palliative Research Immersion Program who are engaged in concurrent research with remote mentors at Weill Cornell Medicine. Students in this course will learn about research methods, techniques, and practices in geriatric and palliative settings and engage with various providers and stakeholders in the field.#
&HD 4670 | Advanced Seminar in Mood Disorders&
#No description available.#
&HD 4720 | Current Research in Emotion, Cognition, and Brain&
#The course will cover advanced topics in research on the emotions from central neural and peripheral physiological perspectives, with an emphasis with how emotions shape different aspects of cognition and behavior.#
&HD 4765 | How to Think Like a Scientist&
#What does it mean to think like a scientist?  This course will explore the structure of scientific thinking, from its philosophical foundations through current efforts to make science fair and replicable. The thought processes that underlie the methods used in psychology and neuroscience are rarely made explicit in courses on statistics and research methods – understanding these thought processes can make us better scientists and sharper thinkers.#
&HD 4850 | Professional Development in Translational Research&
#As a supplement to their immersive learning experience working on faculty research projects, students in this course will engage with actors and ideas from across the youth development research and practice communities, learn about research methods and dissemination to various audiences, and begin to see the world from a translational research perspective.#
&HD 4860 | Nearest Neighbor&
#As a supplement to their immersive learning experience working on translational research projects led by CHE faculty, and building on their experience in HD4850 (Professional Development in Translational Research), this course will provide opportunities for students to put their learning into practice by proposing and implementing a translational research project in collaboration with community partners.#
&HD 4940 | Moral Psychology in Action&
#Moral Psychology in Action is an applied psychology course for students who want to make a difference in the world through ethical leadership and positive contributions in organizations, and who are drawn to scholarly work on psychology, ethics, and morality.  The course is experiential and takes place mostly outside the classroom through students' individualized partnerships in community organizations, businesses, and institutions.  Learning outcomes include enhanced critical reflection, intercultural competence, ethical practice, and the practice of applied moral psychology research methods.#
&HD 4990 | Senior Honors Thesis&
#This course is for students doing research as part of the Honors Program in Human Development.#
&HD 5760 | Quantitative Methods II&
#This second part of the graduate statistics sequence is intended to teach more advanced techniques of modern quantitative data analysis, with a focus on the analysis of non-randomized studies. We will cover a variety of models, including models with linear and non-linear effects, model with random effects, and models for limited dependent variables.#
&HD 6200 | First-Year Proseminar in Human Development&
#Designed as an orientation to the department and the university. Activities include attendance at research presentations, visits to departmental research laboratories, relevant informational sessions (e.g., Institutional Review Board for Human Participants, proposal writing), and guidance in preparing a public research presentation to be made at the end of spring semester.#
&HD 6210 | Seminar on Autobiographical Memory&
#This graduate seminar is designed to give an overview as well as in-depth analysis of topics related to autobiographical memory and its development. Readings focus heavily on current theories and empirical research on a wide range of topics including childhood amnesia, reminiscence bump, emotion and memory, memory accuracy, development and disruption, neurological perspectives, memory functions, and memory across cultures.#
&HD 6690 | The Nature and Function of Affectional Bonds&
#This course will examine human bonding primarily from a psychological perspective, drawing on empirical and theoretical work from the fields of developmental, clinical, evolutionary, cognitive, personality, and social psychology, and secondarily from ethology, anthropology, sociology, and neurobiology. The central goal of the course is to define and explain basic structure, functions, dynamics, and formation of human affectional bonds, especially those of the attachment and mating variety.#
&HD 6720 | Current Research in Emotion, Cognition and Brain&
#The course will cover advanced topics in research on the emotions from central neural and peripheral physiological perspectives, with an emphasis with how emotions shape different aspects of cognition and behavior.#
&HD 6810 | Proseminar in Affective and Clinical Science I&
#This course is intended as a professional development seminar for graduate students hoping to pursue research that integrates affective and clinical science. It is modeled after the popular "Brown Bag" courses at peer institutions.  Class meetings will blend student presentations; workshopping of emerging research; analysis of classic and recently published scholarship in the field; and visiting speakers. Students will gain a deeper understanding of the scientific methods needed to study this topic and build the skills required for an academic career - while simultaneously developing a community of scholars with shared interests in this area of research.#
&HD 7000 | Directed Readings&
#For study that predominantly involves library research and independent study.#
&HD 7010 | Empirical Research&
#For study that predominantly involves collection and analysis of research data.#
&HD 8990 | Master's Thesis and Research&
#This course is for Master's students doing research for their Master's thesis.#
&HD 9990 | Doctoral Thesis and Research&
#This course is for Ph.D. students doing research for their doctoral thesis.#


$HE | Human Ecology Nondepartmental$
&HE 1112 | Academic Well-Being Seminar&
#No description available.#
&HE 1115 | Critical Reading and Thinking&
#In this course, students will gain greater awareness of how they manage their time and how they work with themselves. Through self-study and self-reflection, students will examine their ways of doing things and practice different approaches to time management, improving sleep and managing stress, as well as study skills including test preparation, reading, writing and problem-solving. Learning outcomes: students will develop greater self-awareness of their tendencies and how they do things, and will be able to evaluate how they are doing in terms of academics and personal well-being.#
&HE 1850 | Introduction to Human Ecology&
#This course introduces students to the mission, history, values, and curricular and co-curricular programs of Human Ecology. The course will complement learning within majors by offering a broader perspective on the framing of social problems through a multidisciplinary lens. Students are introduced to equitable community partnership practices. Finally, the course offers the opportunity to forge connections with peers and faculty across the College.#
&HE 2222 | Translating the Science of Purpose&
#In recent years scholars have produced an abundance of research demonstrating the potential impact of having a sense of purpose in life. From increased psychological well-being and net worth to decreased risk of mortality, there is evidence that purpose is related to outcomes that matter to most people. Though these findings are well-documented in the empirical literature, there is a need for people to work with individuals and communities outside of academia to translate existing research into applications that are practical, relevant, and accessible. The primary aim of this course is to offer students an introduction to the science of purpose with the goal of being able to share this knowledge and co-create new knowledge with communities that might benefit from it. Students will be supported in developing skills for communicating about research with groups and individuals that might apply relevant findings in their own lives, organizations, and/or communities. Though our focus will be on translating the science of purpose in life in particular, we anticipate that these skills will be applicable for communicating about other types of research as well.#
&HE 2300 | Introduction to Clinical and Translational Science&
#This introductory course explores the multidisciplinary field of clinical and translational science. It includes instruction and opportunities for application of translational science frameworks, underlying principles, and diverse methods of inquiry. Class meetings include: lecture, discussion, and small group activities. Students will be challenged to make translational science relevant to their educational and career goals.#
&HE 3300 | Proseminar for Introduction to Clinical and Translational Science&
#This proseminar will include a small group of students participating in the BCTR Scholars Program (BSP) to meet regularly to discuss the connection between course materials and their experiences in the BSP program. This seminar will be semi-structured around the weekly discussion questions posted by BSP student to be responsive to their interests and the direction that they would like the discussion to move toward. Students will be expected to discuss how the course material may connect with their upcoming experiences in community agencies (BSP students are placed in agencies during the summer), and how the course and the BSP connect to their educational and career aspirations. Guest faculty and project leaders working with community partners will be invited to join these proseminars, and specific individuals will be recruited based on availability and BSP student's expressed topical interests.#
&HE 4010 | Empirical Research&
#For study that predominately involves data collection and analysis, or laboratory or studio projects.#


$HEBRW | Hebrew$
&HEBRW 1102 | Elementary Modern Hebrew II&
#Intended for beginners. Provides a thorough grounding in reading, writing, grammar, oral comprehension, and speaking. Students who complete the course are able to function in basic situations in a Hebrew-speaking environment.#
&HEBRW 2100 | Intermediate Modern Hebrew&
#The course is aimed at training students in exact and idiomatic Hebrew, expanding vocabulary and usage of grammatical knowledge, and acquiring facility of expression in both conversation and writing. Uses written and oral exercises built around the texts. Reading and discussion of selections from Hebrew literature and Israeli culture through the use of texts and audiovisual materials.#
&HEBRW 3102 | Advanced Modern Hebrew II&
#This is the second course in our third-year Modern Hebrew language sequence. Like its predecessor, it focuses on developing speech proficiency, reading and listening comprehension, and writing. It does this through reading of a variety of fiction and nonfiction texts; viewing of filmic works and television series selected for their social, political, and cultural relevance; class discussions; presentations and writing about everyday issues in Israel and abroad.#
&HEBRW 5510 | Graduate Studies in Hebrew&
#Topics vary by semester in relation to student needs.#


$HIERO | Hieroglyphic Egyptian$
&HIERO 1451 | Ancient Egyptian II: Introduction to Middle Egyptian Hieroglyphs&
#A continuation of HIERO 1450. For over two thousand years, from the Middle Kingdom (ca. 2100 BCE) into the Roman era, Egyptian monuments were inscribed with hieroglyphs of the Middle Egyptian writing system. Students will continue to learn the complete Middle Egyptian verbal system and continue to enrich their Egyptian vocabulary. We will also continue translating complete literary and religious texts, including the fantastic tale of a sailor's maritime misadventures and divine encounters ("The Shipwrecked Sailor") and a hymn in honor of the sun god ("The Litany of Re").#


$HINDI | Hindi$
&HINDI 1122 | Elementary Hindi II&
#Designed for students who have no prior background in Hindi and wish to develop some basic speaking and written skills. This course offers a balanced treatment of speaking, listening comprehension, reading, and writing skills. By the end of the Elementary Hindi sequence, students will beable to (1) converse and comprehend conversations on topics such as personal needs and social activities; (2) listen and communicate main ideas of simple stories and conversations in Hindi; (3) read aloud/pronounce and write in Hindi-Urdu scripts at a satisfactory speed; (4) familiarize themselves with the language through the meaning cultural contexts and background.#
&HINDI 2202 | Intermediate Hindi II&
#HINDI 2202 is the continuation of HINDI 2201. The main emphasis in this course is to reinforce the linguistic functions learned in HINDI 2201, and to build comparatively more complex functions suitable for intermediate level in Hindi. Students' competence in all four language skills will be improved in order to perform higher level tasks and function.#
&HINDI 2204 | Intermediate Hindi Reading and Writing for Heritage Students II&
#Throughout this course sequence all aspects of language learning are practiced; listening, speaking, reading, and writing. Video materials are used and the emphasis is on the conversational aspect of the language.#
&HINDI 3302 | Advanced Hindi II&
#This is a continuation of HINDI 3301. Selected readings in modern Hindi literature. Continued work on fluency in speaking Hindi on an advanced level. There will be a combination of different reading materials from literature, journals, newspapers, and many social, entertainment, and political magazines in Hindi. Discussions will be based on those readings and articles, hence giving opportunities to express views and opinions in a fluent and effective manner.#


$HIST | History$
&HIST 1200 | FWS: Writing History&
#How can we learn about the past? How do we tell stories about the past? How do we judge the truth of falsity of evidence? Writing History seminars introduce students to many different ways of interpreting and writing about the past, and to the wide range of sources that historians use: from diaries to tax rolls, from scraps of textile to films and advertisements. Topics and readings vary by section.#
&HIST 1402 | FWS: Global Islam&
#This course looks at Islam as a global phenomenon, both historically and in the contemporary world.  We spend time on the genesis of Islam in the Middle East, but then move across the Muslim would in various weeks (to Africa;Turkey; Iran; Eurasia; Southeast Asia; East Asia) and to the West to see how Islam looks across global boundaries.  The course tries to flesh out the diversity of Islam within the central message of this world religion.#
&HIST 1412 | FWS: Alone in the Crowd: Self and Society in American Thought&
#Is the United States a nation of freedom-loving individualists or club-joining conformists? Both, obviously. How, then, have Americans reconciled their enthusiasm for personal independence and individual conscience with their need for mutual aid and collective harmony? From the early days of the republic to our own digitally-mediated age, clergy, activists, psychologists, feminists, and social scientists such as Ralph Waldo Emerson, bell hooks, Betty Friedan have grappled with this question. In this First-Year Writing Seminar, we will study their essays, sermons, and manifestos in both content and form, responding with our own reflective, comparative, and persuasive essays.#
&HIST 1470 | FWS: Writing National Parks&
#For centuries, people have revered the places known as Yosemite and Yellowstone National Parks. Artists, intellectuals, and nature lovers have devoted books, brochures, and picture essays to the natural splendor, biodiversity, and history of these places. In this course, we will read a variety of essays, books, and stories about Yosemite and Yellowstone to become familiar with different writing traditions about place and nature. We will learn about the Indigenous history, settler colonialism, and conservationist efforts in Yosemite and Yellowstone by reading historical monographs, fiction, long-form journalism, and primary sources. To improve your writing and reading skills, you will make several attempts at different genres of writing about nature and the environment.#
&HIST 1571 | American Defense Policy and Military History from the Two World Wars to the Global War on Terror&
#America is finishing up two wars, one in Iraq and one in Afghanistan. They have been the longest wars in American history and have ended amid much ambivalence about the US engagement in each place and the results. They are part of a series of wars that America has fought as a global power, with a global reach, sending its forces thousands of miles from home. That global reach is not new, and goes back all the way to 1898 and the Spanish-American War. This course will look at the American military experience from our first tentative steps onto the global stage in 1898, to the earth-spanning conflicts of World War I and II, to the nuclear tension of Cold War conflicts, and finish with the current Long War against terrorism, and the conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan.#
&HIST 1622 | From Samurai to Superpower: Japan in World History II&
#In 1868, samurai revolutionaries and their allies seized the reins of power and established a new capital they called Tokyo. Against all odds, this fragile regime survived and made Tokyo a center of power that would transform both Japan and the world. This survey of Japanese history explores the rise and fall of Japan as a modern imperial power; its foreign relations; its economic and scientific development from "feudalism" to futuristic technologies; and Japan's many modern revolutions, from the rule of the samurai to Westernization and democracy, from democratic collapse to fascism and World War II, and from Japan's postwar rebirth to the present. We will examine not only big events but also everyday life, including gender and sexuality, family and schools, and art and popular culture.#
&HIST 1690 | Deep Fake: A History&
#In 2016, Oxford Dictionaries declared "post-truth" as the international word of the year. Since then, especially with the rise of generative AI, concerns about the meaning of truth have emerged as central in media, politics, and daily life. But does truth/post-truth have a longer history? And what can we learn from how philosophers, political theorists, artists, and people in the past engaged with concepts like truth and falsity? This history of Deep Fakes offers students a historical understanding of how and why humans have constructed and enacted categories of the real/fake, original/copy, and fact/fiction from the ancient world to the present day. Specific topics covered may include myth and history, conspiracy, imposters, forgeries, propaganda, realism, replicants, and hyperreality.#
&HIST 1740 | Imperial China&
#This course explores the history of imperial China between the 3rd century b.c.e. and the 16th century c.e. with a focus on the following questions: How did imperial Chinese states go about politically unifying diverse peoples over vast spaces? How did imperial Chinese approaches to governance and to relations with the outer world compare with strategies employed by other historical empires? How did those approaches change over time? How did major socio-cultural formations — including literary canons; religious and familial lineages; marketing networks; and popular book and theatrical cultures — grow and take root, and what were the broader ramifications of those developments? How did such basic configurations of human difference as Chinese (civilized)-barbarian identity, high-low status, and male-female gender operate and change over time?#
&HIST 1930 | A Global History of Love&
#By posing seemingly simple questions such as what is love and who has the right to love, this introductory-level lecture course surveys how love has been experienced and expressed from the pre-modern period to the present. Through case studies of familial and conjugal love in Africa, Asia, the US, Europe, and South and Latin America, the course will examine the debates about and enactment's of what constitutes the appropriate way to show love and affection in different cultures and historical contexts. Among the themes we will explore are questions of sexuality, marriage, kinship, and gender rights. A final unit will examine these themes through modern technologies such as the Internet, scientific advances in medicine, and a growing awareness that who and how we love is anything but simple or universal.#
&HIST 1950 | The Invention of the Americas&
#When did the 'Americas' come in to being? Who created 'them' and how? What other geographic units of analysis might we consider in thinking about what Iberian explorers and intellectuals initially called the 'fourth part' of the world? Given the scope and extent of the Spanish and Portuguese empires, could 'the Americas' extend from the Caribbean to the Philippines? This course takes up such questions as a means to explore the history of what would become-only in the nineteenth century-'Latin America.' We move from the initial "encounters" of peoples from Africa and Iberia with the "New World," the creation of long-distance trade with, and settlement in, Asia, and the establishment of colonial societies, through to the movements for independence in most of mainland Spanish America in the early 19th century and to the collapse of Spanish rule in the Pacific and Caribbean later that century. Through lectures, discussions and the reading of primary sources and secondary texts, the course examines the economic and social organization of the colonies, intellectual currents and colonial science, native accommodation and resistance to colonial rule, trade networks and imperial expansion, labor regimes and forms of economic production, and migration and movement.#
&HIST 1976 | Recreating the Caribbean: Migration and Identity in Contemporary Caribbean History&
#Waves of voluntary and forced migrants and their imposition on indigenous communities led to radically new societies in the Caribbean. Though popularized as tropical paradises, the Caribbean has one of the highest rates of emigration in the world. Revolutions, wars of independence and socio-economic and political marginalization has led to the formation of Caribbean diasporic communities in Central America, North America, Europe and Africa. These diasporic communities are also transnational spaces because emigrants retain important social, economic and political connections to their countries of origin. Drawing on specific case studies this course considers three interconnecting questions – What factors led to sustained emigration? Why did migrants' settle in specific countries? How have Caribbean diasporic communities reshaped their natal communities and their new homes?#
&HIST 2001 | Supervised Reading - Undergraduate&
#Independent Study based supervised reading with history faculty.  Student must complete Independent Study Form with faculty supervisor for determining requirements and for permission to enroll through the online system (https://data.arts.cornell.edu/as-stus/indep_study_intro.cfm).  Student then work with their faculty supervisor throughout the semester for successful completion and grading of the agreed upon requirements.#
&HIST 2005 | The First American University&
#Educational historian Frederick Rudolph called Cornell University "the first American university," referring to its unique role as a coeducational, nonsectarian, land-grant institution with a broad curriculum and diverse student body. In this course, we will explore the history of Cornell, taking as our focus the pledge of Ezra Cornell and Andrew Dickson White to found a university where "any person can find instruction in any study." The course will cover a wide range of topics and perspectives relating to the faculty, student body, evolution of campus, and important events and eras in Cornell history. Stories and vignettes will provide background on the current university and its administrative structure, campus traditions, and the names that adorn buildings and memorials throughout campus. Finally, the course will offer a forum for students to address questions on present-day aspects of the university.#
&HIST 2043 | Asian American Oral History&
#This seminar will explore Asian American history through the methodology of oral history. Students will read Asian American historical scholarship that has relied on oral history methods, but they will also engage with theoretical and methodological work around the use of oral sources. Students will develop, research, and present oral history projects.  Themes include power and knowledge production, the role of oral history in documenting the Asian American past, and local and family histories as avenues through which to explore oral history methods.#
&HIST 2158 | St. Petersburg and the Making of Modern Russia&
#Founded by Peter the Great in the early eighteenth century, St. Petersburg was built expressly to advertise the triumph of enlightened absolutism at home and to display Russia's status as a major European power abroad. But for all of its neo-classical splendor, the image of imperial St. Petersburg has been consistently invoked as a critical touchstone for the expression of political discontent, social unease and spiritual anxiety. The most modern and "intentional" of Russian cities, Russia's northern capital has come to stand for everything that's wrong with modern life. In this seminar, we will approach St. Petersburg as a cultural text composed by an illustrious trio of Russian writers who saw the complicated history of their country through Peter's "window to the west" -- Nikolai Gogol, Fyodor Dostoevsky and Andrei Bely.#
&HIST 2212 | The U.S. Empire&
#What is the American empire? Is empire even the right word to describe U.S. power in the world today or in the past? If so, is the American empire formal or informal, and is the United States a reluctant superpower or a belligerent hegemon? When did the empire begin? And is it in decline today? In addressing these questions, this seminar will offer an in-depth look at key moments in the history of the United States and its foreign relations, ranging from the American revolutionary war and historians' debates about the founders' thinking in relation to empire; the "imperial moment" of 1898, when the United States acquired overseas colonies for the first time; the beginnings of the national security state in 1917 with the entry of the United States into the First World War; the "American Century", or the post-World War II years when the United States was the most powerful nation in the world; and the era of unipolarity after the end of the Cold War and which culminated in the Wars on Terror. Throughout, we will draw upon primary and secondary sources to examine the ideas and practices which have shaped U.S. foreign relations, including continental expansion, the frontier, imperial anticolonialism, the open door, covert operations, extraordinary rendition, police action, and more. Taking both a chronological and thematic approach, this class offers an examination of the past in order to understand some of the key issues facing the United States, and the world, today.#
&HIST 2285 | Fascism in the Twentieth Century: History and Theory&
#This course uses history and political theory to understand the fascist experience in the twentieth century. In the first part of the course, we will examine fascist ideology; its relation to democracy and dictatorship; whether fascism is best understood as another form of authoritarianism or as totalitarianism; the role of nationalism, race, religion, culture, gender, the family, and intellectuals in fascist regimes; and the institutional and economic foundations of fascist politics. The second half of the course covers the origins, development and defeat of fascist states in the mid-twentieth century. We will devote the most time to understanding what happened in Mussolini's Italy (1922-1945) and in Hitler's Germany (1933-1945), but will also examine fascist movements and regimes in Austria, Hungary, Romania, Spain and Portugal. We will finish the course by looking at the persistence of fascist movements and ideas beyond WWII and into the present, and ask how these are similar to historical fascism and in what ways they differ from that experience.#
&HIST 2307 | Histories of the African Diaspora&
#This seminar will introduce students to the expanding and dynamic historiography of the African diaspora. The most astute scholars of the African diaspora argue that diaspora is not to be conflated with migration for diaspora includes the cultural and intellectual work that constructs and reinforces linkages across time and space. Much of the early historiography of the African diaspora disproportionately focused on Anglophone theorists whose intellectual output engaged thinkers and communities in Anglophone West Africa, Britain, the Caribbean and the United States. Recent interventions in the historiography of the African diaspora has significantly broadened its geographical conceptualization by including a larger segment of Western Europe, Latin America and Asia. In addition, scholars of Africa are increasingly exploring topics in the African diaspora. Using a range of archival and secondary sources, students will explore the material, cultural and intellectual factors that are remaking the historiography of the African diaspora.#
&HIST 2315 | The Occupation of Japan&
#In August 1945, Japan was a devastated country; its cities burned, its people starving, its military and government in surrender. World War II was over. The occupation had begun. What sort of society emerged from the cooperation and conflict between occupiers and occupied? Students will examine sources ranging from declassified government documents to excerpts from diaries and bawdy fiction, alongside major scholarly studies, to find out. The first half of the course focuses on key issues in Japanese history, like the fate of the emperor, constitutional revision, and the emancipation of women. The second half zooms out for a wider perspective, for the occupation of Japan was never merely a local event. It was the collapse of Japanese empire and the rise of American empire in Asia. It was decolonization in Korea and the start of the Cold War. Students will further investigate these links in final individual research projects.#
&HIST 2333 | The Culture of Violence: Europe 1914-1945&
#At the end of the Great War, Europe has became the realm of a new relationship between violence, culture, and politics. From 1914 to 1945, the continent became the realm of an extraordinary entanglement of wars, revolutions and counterrevolutions, civil wars, and genocides, which could be summarized by the concept of "European Civil War". This course will analyze some features of this cataclysmic time by engaging political theory, cultural and intellectual history, and by scrutinizing novels, films, and intellectual productions.#
&HIST 2381 | Corruption, Collusion, and Commerce in Early America and the Caribbean&
#Corruption in politics and economics has become a significant issue in the modern world. This course introduces students to the study of corruption and collusion from the perspective of early America and the Caribbean from 1500 through 1800. By examining the historical evolution of corruption, the course addresses questions such as: What is corruption and, by contrast, what is good governance? Who creates law and when is it enforced? Can societies be corrupt or only institutions? And, does economic corruption help or hurt financial development? Our readings and discussion will examine the intersection of politics, culture, gender, and economics. We will reflect on how early Americans understood corruption and collusion and what that can tell us about similar modern issues. In the end, the course focuses on the concept of corruption as a complex social function through the lens of bribery, piracy, sex crimes, and other forms of social deviancy.#
&HIST 2392 | Where Fire Meets Ice: Histories of the U.S.-Canada Border Across Four Centuries&
#The international boundary between Canada and the United is the longest, straightest border in the world. Although frequently cast as "boring" in juxtaposition to its southern counterpart, this viewpoint overlooks the U.S.-Canada border's longstanding history as a site and engine of trans-national tensions and controversies. This course addresses the complex histories of the 3,500 mile boundary separating the United States from Canada from its eighteenth century colonial antecedents to contemporary challenges related to drug smuggling, border fence construction, pandemic-related travel restrictions, immigration, commerce, environmental issues, Indigenous peoples' rights, and national identity construction. The instructor, a dual citizen of Canada and the United States, brings not only life experience of border-crossing, but also a recent background in legal testimony on border-related issues.#
&HIST 2435 | Global Maoism: History and Present&
#Maoism and Chinese Communism are not history after Mao's death in 1976. In China, Maoism holds the key to the enduring success of the Chinese Communist Party (CCP), one of the most remarkable organizations of the 20th and 21st centuries that has survived the collapse of communism in Europe and the USSR. With the beneficial transformation brought by capitalism and globalization in China, the end of the Cold War and the narrative of the "end of history" cannot explain the resurgence of Maoism.#
&HIST 2515 | Freedom Struggles in Southern Africa&
#This course will examine southern African definitions of freedom and methods and tactics used in the fight for freedom. It will investigate how different thinkers defined political and personal freedom and how they pursued it, paying careful attention to changing definitions and practices over time, and to the specificity of the southern African region, long a site of global and regional exchange. The course will consider major figures like Nelson Mandela but will also explore lesser-known histories of women's freedom struggles and grassroots and community movements to define a free society. It will emphasize the plurality and diversity of southern African theorizations of freedom. The course will engage with historiographical debates in the field of 'liberation histories', and will use diverse primary source materials, including trial documents, memoirs, political speeches and tracts, and novels.#
&HIST 2548 | Buddhists in Indian Ocean World: Past & Present&
#For millennia, Buddhist monks, merchants, pilgrims, diplomats, and adventurers have moved around the Indian Ocean arena circulating Buddhist teachings and powerful objects. In doing so they helped create Buddhist communities in the places we now refer to as southern China, India, Sri Lanka, and Southeast Asia. The course explores these circulatory histories by focusing on case studies in each of four historical periods: premodern (esp. early second millennium A.D.); the era of 19th-century colonial projects; mid-20th-century nation-state formation in South and Southeast Asia; and contemporary (early 21st century) times. Drawing together materials from Indian Ocean studies, Buddhist studies, and critical studies of colonialism, modernity, and nation-state formation, this course attends to the ways in which changing trans-regional conditions shape local Buddhisms, how Buddhist collectives around the Indian Ocean arena shape one another, and how trade, religion, and politics interact.#
&HIST 2575 | Tyranny and Dignity: Chinese Women from the Cultural Revolution to the White Paper Revolution&
#This course focuses on the human condition of Chinese women after 1949. In the name of the Women's liberation movement since the early 1900s, do Chinese women eventually hold up the half sky? From the cradle to the grave, what was most challenging in women's life? How did political, economic, and cultural forces frame women's professional careers and private life? No judgments nor imaginations. Using multi-media, such as Chinese independent documentary films, music, and photographs, students will discover the hidden stories behind the mainstream narratives. Workshops with film directors, pop music singers, and photographers offer students an unusual way of accessing all backstage field experiences.#
&HIST 2581 | Environmental History&
#This lecture course serves as an introduction to the historical study of humanity's interrelationship with the natural world. Environmental history is a quickly evolving field, taking on increasing importance as the environment itself becomes increasingly important in world affairs. During this semester, we'll examine the sometimes unexpected ways in which "natural" forces have shaped human history (the role of germs, for instance, in the colonization of North America); the ways in which human beings have shaped the natural world (through agriculture, urbanization, and industrialization, as well as the formation of things like wildlife preserves); and the ways in which cultural, scientific, political, and philosophical attitudes toward the environment have changed over time. This is designed as an intensely interdisciplinary course: we'll view history through the lenses of ecology, literature, art, film, law, anthropology, and geography. Our focus will be on the United States, but, just as environmental pollutants cross borders, so too will this class, especially toward the end, when we attempt to put U.S. environmental history into a geopolitical context. This course is meant to be open to all, including non-majors and first-year students.#
&HIST 2590 | The Crusades&
#This course focuses on the ideas and practices of Crusading, from its birth ca. 1100 to the fall of the Kingdom of Jerusalem in 1292. We explore the roots of Crusading in Christian Europe and in the Islamic Near East; the conquest, settlement, and loss of the Latin Levant; and the impacts and afterlives of Crusading. Central themes include the institutional, intellectual, and political histories of Christianity (Latin, Byzantine, and other) and Islam; military, social, and economic narratives of the period; and social, cultural, and environmental analysis, using both material and textual sources.#
&HIST 2656 | Anti-Judaism and Anti-Semitism in Historical Perspective&
#Why is it that the age of emancipation which saw most of the world's Jews gain citizenship status and achieve unprecedented levels of socio-economic modernization, also witnessed a catastrophic assault on Jewish life? How do we explain the conjunction between the spread of liberal values and the exponential rise of anti-semitism? Most historians refer to the virulence of racism in accounting for the scale and brutality of anti-Jewish rhetoric which prepared the way for the destruction of European Jewry in the twentieth century. But this explanation fails to account for the fact that progressive democratic discourse which explicitly endorses ethnic diversity and emphatically repudiates racial prejudice remains susceptible to anti-Jewish animus even now. In this class, we will examine the complex relationship between emancipation and anti-semitism from the perspective of those who benefited from the former but had to contend with the reality of the latter – Europe's rising class of Jewish intellectuals. We will discover that their insights into the problem of modern Jew-hatred were both acute and prescient and have much to teach us about the current Jewish predicament.#
&HIST 2660 | Everything You Know About Indians is Wrong: Unlearning Native American History&
#One thing many Americans think they know is their Indians: Pocahontas, the First Thanksgiving, fighting cowboys, reservation poverty, and casino riches. Under our very noses, however, Native American history has evolved into one of the most exciting, dynamic, and contentious fields of inquiry into America's past. It is now safer to assume, as Comanche historian Paul Chaat Smith has pointed out, that everything you know about Indians is in fact wrong. Most people have much to "unlearn" about Native American history before true learning can take place. This course aims to achieve that end by (re)introducing students to key themes and trends in the history of North America's indigenous nations. Employing an issues-oriented approach, the course stresses the ongoing complexity of Native American societies' engagements with varieties of settler colonialism since 1492 and dedicates itself to a concerted program of myth-busting. As such, the course will provide numerous opportunities for students to develop their critical thinking and reading skills.#
&HIST 2688 | Cleopatra's Egypt: Tradition and Transformation&
#Following the conquests of Alexander, the ancient civilization of Egypt came under Greek rule. This period is best known for its famous queen Cleopatra, the last independent ruler of ancient Egypt. But even before Cleopatra's life and death, the Egypt that she governed was a fascinating place – and a rich case study in cultural interactions under ancient imperialism. This course explores life in Egypt under Greek rule, during the three centuries known as the Ptolemaic period (named after Cleopatra's family, the Ptolemaic dynasty). We will examine the history and culture of Ptolemaic Egypt, an empire at the crossroads of Africa, the Near East, and the Mediterranean. We will explore the experiences of Egyptians, Greeks, and others living in this multi-cultural, multi-ethnic, and multi-linguistic society. Finally, we will investigate the ways that Ptolemaic Egypt can shed light on modern experiences of imperialism, colonialism, and globalization.#
&HIST 2689 | Roman History&
#This course offers an introduction to the history of the Roman empire, from the prehistoric settlements on the site of Rome to the fall of the Western empire in the fifth century and its revival in the East with Byzantium. Lectures will provide a narrative and interpretations of major issues, including: empire building, cultural unity and diversity, religious transformations, changing relations between state and society. Discussion section will be the opportunity to engage with important texts, ancient and modern, about Rome.#
&HIST 2715 | A Global South: Chile, the Pacific and the World&
#This course examines the history of Chile from the 1700s to the present, always with an appreciation for its place in a broader world but always also with attention to its regional and national specificities and its links to the Pacific. Lectures will be paired with readings from various genres: fiction, poetry, journalism, manifestos, speeches, historical monographs, and short stories.#
&HIST 2760 | The British Empire&
#This course considers how a small northern European kingdom acquired and then governed a vast global empire. Beginning with the navigators, pirates and settlers of the Elizabethan era, and ending with the process of decolonization after World War Two, we will explore the diverse character and effects of British imperialism in the Americas, in Asia, in Africa, and the Pacific, and consider the legacies of the British empire in the contemporary world.#
&HIST 2765 | The North American West&
#In this course, we will learn about the history of the West. We will deconstruct popular myths about the West, as we engage with the major themes and significant debates that define the historical scholarship. This course will begin with Native origin stories and end with the 20th century. As a class, we will study the west from a multitude of perspectives, such as race, gender, and ethnicity, the environment, labor, politics and culture. This course is designed to increase our knowledge of the social, political and intellectual developments that have shaped our understanding of the West.#
&HIST 2905 | Global History of War from the 16th Century to the Present&
#What is war? How has it changed over time? How and why do states engage in war and what social, economic and political factors determine when and what kind of war breaks out? Who fights wars and why? This class answers these questions by tracing the evolution of modern warfare from the beginnings of nationalism and state-formation in 16th century Europe to the present day. Focusing on questions of total war, revolution, insurgency and counterinsurgency, colonial war and wars of resistance, grand strategy and political economy, students will learn about conventional and irregular war across a span of almost four hundred years, from Europe and the Americas to China and Japan, the Middle East, and North and Central Africa.#
&HIST 2958 | Empires and Vampires: History of Eastern Europe&
#In the course we will study the history of the lands, peoples, and states of Eastern Europe during the 19th and 20th centuries as an integral part of modern Europlean and global history. We will ask what the East European experience can teach us about larger questions of cause and effect, agency in history, continuties and ruptures, the interplay between institutions, states and individuals, and the relationship between culture and politics. The course will define the region broadly, to include the lands stretching from today's Ukraine to Poland and the Balkans. But given the constant flux in borders, demographics, and sovereignities of this region, we will have to continually reconsider what and where Eastern Europe was. We will survey key periods in the region's history, looking closely at cases from across Eastern Europe. We will learn about institutions, large-scale processes, personalities, events, cultural artifacts, and ideas using a combination of narrative history and literary essays, primary documents, works of fiction, and films.#
&HIST 3002 | Supervised Research - Undergraduate&
#Independent Study based supervised research with a history faculty member.  Student must complete an on-line Independent Study form with a faculty supervisor to determine requirements and for permission.  Students then work with their faculty supervisor throughout the semester for successful completion and grading of the agreed upon requirements.#
&HIST 3345 | Global 1960s: Revolution from the College Campus to the Battle Grounds&
#This course explores the waves of rebellion, and reaction, that swept the globe in the 1960s. From Dakar to Havana, from Beijing to Paris, we will examine the events, social movements, actors, places and legacies of the 1960s. Each week will focus on a specific case study and a specific theme: we will be looking at the role of film in liberation, changing ideas of sex and the body, the role of drugs in global revolutionary movements, and what being a student meant in the 1960s. In many ways the 1960s set the tone for today's political and social debates. Over the next few months, we will try to understand how. This should help us get a better grasp of what has been happening on our campus and across the world this past year.#
&HIST 3430 | History of the U.S. Civil War and Reconstruction&
#A survey of the turning point of US. history: The Civil War (1861-1865) and its aftermath, Reconstruction (1865-1877). We will look at the causes, the coming, and the conduct, of the war, and the way in which it became a war for freedom. We will then follow the cause of freedom through the greatest slave rebellion in American history, and the attempts by formerly enslaved people to make freedom real in Reconstruction. And we will see how Reconstruction's tragic ending left questions open that are still not answered in U.S. society and politics.#
&HIST 3448 | Islamic Mysticism: Life, Love, and History&
#Sufism, popularly understood as Islamic mysticism, is a loose name given to a broad and diverse collection of beliefs, practices and groups that range and vary across time and space. Going from a small and largely secretive group of mystical practitioners to a mainstream form of piety in the late medieval period, Sufism has a fascinating history, filled with intrigue, controversy, conflict and interesting characters. In this course, students will delve deep into the history of Sufism and read widely from across the Sufi and anti-Sufi traditions. Concentration will be given to practical questions of how Sufis saw themselves and their relationship to God and the world, how they built mystic community, spurned or embraced family life, interacted with mainstream society, and engaged in controversial erotic practices. Across the course, we will read Sufi histories and biographies, poetry, introductory treatises, as well as anti-Sufi polemics and stories.#
&HIST 3519 | History of State and Society in Modern Iran: Through Literature and Film&
#In the conditions of strict censorship and numerous limitations on various forms of political organization and activism, literature and cinema, especially Iran's internationally acclaimed art cinematography, have been the major outlets through which the social and political concerns of the Iranian society have been voiced throughout the modern period. The course explores major themes and periods in Iran's transition from the secular state of the Pahlavi dynasty to the religious state of the Islamic Republic in the 20th and 21st centuries. We will focus on social as well as political themes including the Anglo-Russo-American Occupation of Iran, the 1979 Islamic Revolution, U.S.-Iranian relations, Iraq-Iran War, the Green Movement and the crisis of Islamic government, Images of the West in Iran, Modern Youth Culture, Gender segregation, and the struggle between modernity and traditionalism in contemporary Iran. We will watch selected Iranian documentary and feature films and draw on modern Persian literature but will approach them not as art forms but as reflections of major socio-economic, political, and religious phenomena in Iran's modern history. We will read and watch what the Iranians wrote and produced, read and watched, in order to view and explain Iran and its relations with the West through the Iranian eyes. We will examine how the Iranians perceived themselves and the others, how they viewed their own governments and the West, what issues inspired and shaped their outlook outside the official censorship during the period in question. All readings are in English translation and the films are with English subtitles. The course includes lectures deconstructing political, religious, and social evolution of modern Iran as well as regular class discussions where we will address the issues in question from a variety of perspectives.#
&HIST 3590 | The Black Radical Tradition in the U.S.&
#This course provides a critical historical interrogation of what Black Marxism author Cedric Robinson called "the Black Radical Tradition." It will introduce students to some of the major currents in the history of black radical thought, action, and organizing, with an emphasis on the United States after World War I. It relies on social, political, and intellectual history to examine the efforts of black people who have sought not merely social reform, but a fundamental restructuring of political, economic, and social relations. We will define and evaluate radicalism in the shifting contexts of liberation struggles. We will explore dissenting visions of social organization and alternative definitions of citizenship, progress, and freedom. We will confront the meaning of the intersection of race, gender, class, and sexuality in social movements.#
&HIST 3602 | Cultural History of North America&
#This course examines the history of culture in North America from the pre-contact era to present. We will examine how Native, African, European, Asian, and Latino/a influences, along with colonization, immigration, urbanization, industrialization, and consumerization, reshaped the development of American culture, including its architecture, literature, music, visual art, and practices of religion, leisure, and consumption. We will also gain a basic familiarity with the theory and methods of cultural history. Intended for upper-division undergraduate students, the course provides practice in the analysis of historical sources, historiography, and written and oral expression.#
&HIST 3801 | War and Revolution in 20th Century Latino History&
#This course examines war and revolution as drivers of migration from Latin America and the Spanish Caribbean to the United States and Canada. From the War of 1898 to the wars in Central America, war and revolution have displaced millions of people, prompting internal and cross-border migration. This history underscores how migration is multicausal—that is, produced by a wide and complex range of intersecting drivers. War and revolution disrupt livelihoods, produce scarcity, and create the insecurity that makes it impossible to exercise a basic human right to stay home. The course also examines how Latinos have become actors in U.S. wars and interventions in their countries of ancestry.#
&HIST 3802 | Race and Ethnicity in the Ancient World&
#We will consider two basic questions: did the ancient Greeks and Romans have a concept of race or racial identity? If not, what were the dominant collective identities they used to classify themselves and others? We will explore the causes and conditions that gave rise to collective identities that can be described as ethnic and (in some cases) possibly as 'racial' and how these identities worked in their given cultural and political contexts. We will start with Greek identity in the 6th and 5th centuries BCE, then moving to Macedonian identity and the conquests of Alexander the Great, and finally, to the Roman world, where we will explore the question of race and ethnicity within the context of inclusive citizenship. In each of these cultural contexts, we will briefly focus on slavery, examining whether slave identity was at all racialized.#
&HIST 3884 | Race and War in History: Workers, Soldiers, Prisoners, Activists&
#Across twentieth-century history, race and war have been dynamic forces in shaping economic organization and everyday livelihoods. This course will approach labor and working-class history, through a focus on global war as well as 'wars at home.' Racial and warfare events often intersect—in the histories of presidents and activists, business leaders and industrial workers, CIA agents and police, soldiers and prisoners, American laborers abroad and non-Americans migrating stateside. In this course, we'll consider how race and war have been linked—from the rise of Jim Crow and U.S. empire in the 1890s, to the WWII 'Greatest Generation' and its diverse workplaces, to Vietnam and the civil rights movement, to the Iraq wars and immigrant workers, to debates about what has been called a 'military-industrial complex' and a 'prison-industrial complex'.#
&HIST 3960 | Transnational Local: Southeast Asian History from the Eighteenth Century&
#Surveys the modern history of Southeast Asia with special attention to colonialism, the Chinese diaspora, and socio-cultural institutions.  Considers global transformations that brought "the West" into people's lives in Southeast Asia.  Focuses on the development of the modern nation-state, but also questions the narrative by incorporating groups that are typically excluded.  Assigns primary texts in translation.#
&HIST 4000 | Introduction to Historical Research&
#This seminar is an introduction to the theory, practice, and art of historical research and writing. One key purpose of this course is to prepare students to work on longer research projects—especially an Honors Thesis. We will analyze the relationship between evidence and argument in historical writing; assess the methods and possible biases in various examples of historical writing; identify debates and sources relevant to research problems; think about how to use sources creatively; and discuss the various methodological issues associated with historical inquiry, analysis, and presentation.  This course is required for all students wishing to write an Honors Thesis in their senior year.  It should be taken in either semester of the junior year, or in spring of the sophomore year if you are planning to be abroad in your junior year.  NOTE: you do NOT need to be enrolled in the Honors Program in order to sign up for this course.#
&HIST 4002 | Honors Research&
#This course is designed to facilitate student's successful completion of their History Department Honors theses through regular deadlines and small group writing workshops.#
&HIST 4041 | Atlantic Commodities&
#Since Columbus's arrival to the Americas, a number of commodities have bound together Europe, Africa, and the Americas, drastically changing the lives of many people on both sides of the Atlantic. Covering nearly five hundred years of history, this seminar invites students to explore the history of the Atlantic World through the "lives" of commodities such as gold, silver, sugar, cacao, tobacco, cotton, cochineal, indigo, bananas, and more. Tracing commodities from their production site to the moment of consumption, students will be able to understand the possibilities that the commodity-chain approach offers to historical research. As part of this seminar students will write a research paper (using primary sources) that will explain the commodity chain of a specific commodity.#
&HIST 4112 | The Historical Geography of Black America&
#This course provides students with a challenging and interdisciplinary examination of race and space in North American history. It engages public history and critical geographic study through the lens of African Diasporic place-making from the early national period to the present day. How did Afro-descendant people in North America come to know the landscape and fashion communities around wilderness, swamps, urban cores and other "undesirable" areas? What material elements of black spaces came to define what is meant by slums and ghettos? This course illustrates how ongoing struggles that Black communities face with displacement and gentrification are part of a long history that developed alongside territorial expansion and nation building that charted uneven paths to prosperity based on race, gender, and class. This course is timely given that there are about 1,912 sites listed in the U.S. National Register of Historic Places Database as having significance to "Black" heritage and will help students develop their facilities for assigning meaning to these identified sites and what place these spaces have in the understanding of American history.#
&HIST 4277 | Modern European Cultural-Intellectual History through Walter Benjamin’s Arcades Project&
#The premise of this senior seminar in European cultural-intellectual history is that we can learn some of the most crucial aspects of the historian's craft through just one book: Walter Benjamin's Arcades Project. Benjamin is normally seen as a philosopher, cultural critic, literary critic, art historian, media theorist, essayist, and translator, but he was one of the most original and influential historical thinkers of the modern era, and the Arcades Project is one of the key texts of 20th-century European intellectual history. Studying this book will teach you modern European history (esp. late 18th – early 20th c.), but also how to read, research, and write history more creatively. The structure of the seminar is straightforward: we will make our way through the Arcades Project's "convolutes," which means we will cover topics such as architecture, photography, fashion, poetry, prostitution, capitalism, communism, conspiracy, revolution, Marx, Nietzsche, modernity, and more, like boredom for example, or theories of progress and knowledge. Your research projects will take shape as you learn to recognize and make connections between the great variety of ideas and sources united in this magisterial and magical text.#
&HIST 4422 | Oral History: Theory, Practice, and Method&
#This course explores the method of oral history in theory and practice, across different topics, contexts, and geographic/national terrains. It will consider questions like: what sorts of insights do oral histories enable? How can oral history as a method supplement, destabilize, and enrich existing historical accounts? What are the challenges and risks of oral histories, and how can historians mitigate those risks? What theoretical assumptions underlie oral historical work? Are certain topics more appropriate than others to oral historical investigations, and if so, why? We will explore these questions through reading a wide range of texts, hearing from oral historians about their work, and workshopping methods in class, as well as through independent research.#
&HIST 4520 | Jewish Cities&
#From Jerusalem to Rome, from Shanghai to Marrakesh, Jews and cities have been shaping each other for thousands of years. This course ranges through time and space to examine how Jewish and other "minority" experiences offer a window onto questions of modernity and post-colonialism in intersections of the built environment with migration, urban space, and memory. Readings and film/video encompass historical, ethnographic, visual, architectural and literary materials to offer a broad look at materials on ghettos, empires, cosmopolitanism, tolerance, immigrant enclaves, race and ethnicity.#
&HIST 4556 | Gender, Race, and Law in Global Political Economy&
#No description available.#
&HIST 4629 | The Age of Revolution in Europe and the Caribbean: 1789 to 1815&
#A wave of revolutions swept through Europe and the Caribbean, beginning with the French Revolution (1789-1815) and the Haitian Revolution (1791-1804), and eventually upending traditional laws and societies on both sides of the Atlantic. In the first part of the semester, we will read and discuss books related to these revolutions, and in the second part, students will undertake original research in preparation for writing a substantial research paper related to the theme of the class: either an in-depth study of one revolution or a comparative exploration of revolutionary movements.#
&HIST 4910 | Approaches to Medieval Violence&
#'Violence' has become an unavoidable - and urgently troubling - buzzword in contemporary Western culture. We worry about its manifestations and representations in our own civilization, we scan foreign societies with which we interact for any sign of it, we fantasize about consummating it or construct our utopias around its absence. This course is intended as an opportunity for students working on a variety of topics, periods and areas in premodern Europe to investigate its relevance to their own studies. Through an examination of readings on violence in particular historical contexts, from Late Antiquity to the Early Modern period, we will seek to elicit reflection on what is meant by the concept, to prompt consideration of distinctions among forms of violence, and to sample a variety of analytical approaches and tools.#
&HIST 4963 | China's Early Modern&
#Theories of modernization have inspired, informed, and plagued histories of middle and late imperial China. For the Song-Qing eras (roughly 10th-19th centuries), comparative studies have variously found and sought to explain modernization emerging earlier than in Europe, an absence of modernization, or alternative paths of modernization.  Regional models have argued for pan-East Asian systems and patterns of modernization. Global models have argued that China had a vital role in European development as a provenance of modernizing institutions and ideas, as a source of exploited resources, or otherwise as an integral part of global systems. In this course we explore these historiographical debates and develop critical perspectives, including approaches to escaping Eurocentric and teleological frameworks.#
&HIST 6000 | Graduate Research Seminar&
#This seminar is devoted entirely to the writing of a substantive research paper, the dissertation prospectus, or fellowship proposal. Students will share research proposals, annotated bibliographies, outlines and portions of rough drafts. Class meetings will be devoted to discussing what students have produced, and general issues associated with constructing the dissertation prospectus and research papers.#
&HIST 6002 | Professional Development Seminar&
#This workshop-style course provides a weekly opportunity for graduate students across all the fields of History and related disciplines to learn about different skills and competencies to succeed in graduate school. Some weeks, we will focus on how to do research in archives, taking notes and organizing sources, grant-writing, preparing an article for a journal, applying for jobs, writing a cover letter, compiling a CV and writing an annual report. Students will also have opportunities to practice giving conference presentations, job talks, and participating in video interviews.  The aim is to create a secure space where graduate students learn how to succeed in graduate school.#
&HIST 6006 | History Colloquium Series&
#This course is a forum, organized jointly by students and the Director of Graduate Studies, for the reading and discussion of precirculated papers, written mainly by graduate students in the History program. Students registering are expected to attend regularly.#
&HIST 6010 | European History Colloquium&
#A research colloquium designed for European history graduate students. The colloquium will offer a forum for students to present papers and to discuss the work of Europeanists at Cornell as well as visiting scholars.#
&HIST 6041 | Atlantic Commodities&
#Since Columbus's arrival to the Americas, a number of commodities have bound together Europe, Africa, and the Americas, drastically changing the lives of many people on both sides of the Atlantic. Covering nearly five hundred years of history, this seminar invites students to explore the history of the Atlantic World through the "lives" of commodities such as gold, silver, sugar, cacao, tobacco, cotton, cochineal, indigo, bananas, and more. Tracing commodities from their production site to the moment of consumption, students will be able to understand the possibilities that the commodity-chain approach offers to historical research. As part of this seminar students will write a research paper (using primary sources) that will explain the commodity chain of a specific commodity.#
&HIST 6112 | The Historical Geography of Black America&
#This course provides students with a challenging and interdisciplinary examination of race and space in North American history. It engages public history and critical geographic study through the lens of African Diasporic place-making from the early national period to the present day. How did Afro-descendant people in North America come to know the landscape and fashion communities around wilderness, swamps, urban cores and other "undesirable" areas? What material elements of black spaces came to define what is meant by slums and ghettos? This course illustrates how ongoing struggles that Black communities face with displacement and gentrification are part of a long history that developed alongside territorial expansion and nation building that charted uneven paths to prosperity based on race, gender, and class. This course is timely given that there are about 1,912 sites listed in the U.S. National Register of Historic Places Database as having significance to "Black" heritage and will help students develop their facilities for assigning meaning to these identified sites and what place these spaces have in the understanding of American history.#
&HIST 6235 | Images and History: Siegfried Kracauer&
#The aim of this course is to investigate the relationship between history and images, by considering, the work of an outstanding representative of twentieth-century critical theory.  Siegfried Kracauer left a rich body of works spanning from the sociology of mass culture to film criticism and the philosophy of history. This seminar will analuze his theory of images by following his intellectual trajectory from Europe to the United States. We will read his early essays on photography an reification, as well as his well-known works on film theory and history (from Caligari to Hitler, Theory of Film; and History: The Last Things Before the Last). Thus, we will inscribe Kracauer into his historical and intellectual context, shaped by other thinkersof images such as Th. W. Adorno, W. Benjamin, E. Panofsky, and M. Schapiro.#
&HIST 6448 | Islamic Mysticism: Life, Love, and History&
#Sufism, popularly understood as Islamic mysticism, is a loose name given to a broad and diverse collection of beliefs, practices and groups that range and vary across time and space. Going from a small and largely secretive group of mystical practitioners to a mainstream form of piety in the late medieval period, Sufism has a fascinating history, filled with intrigue, controversy, conflict and interesting characters. In this course, students will delve deep into the history of Sufism and read widely from across the Sufi and anti-Sufi traditions. Concentration will be given to practical questions of how Sufis saw themselves and their relationship to God and the world, how they built mystic community, spurned or embraced family life, interacted with mainstream society, and engaged in controversial erotic practices. Across the course, we will read Sufi histories and biographies, poetry, introductory treatises, as well as anti-Sufi polemics and stories.#
&HIST 6509 | Law and Empire: New Approaches to Legal History&
#This graduate-level seminar will introduce students to the latest historical methodologies and debates in the legal history of modern imperialism and colonialism. Readings will focus mainly on the legal history of the modern British empire, and will include studies of legal pluralism in empire, law in slave societies, imperialism and international law, colonial penal regimes, and legal theory in empire.#
&HIST 6520 | Jewish Cities&
#From Jerusalem to Rome, from Shanghai to Marrakesh, Jews and cities have been shaping each other for thousands of years. This course ranges through time and space to examine how Jewish and other "minority" experiences offer a window onto questions of modernity and post-colonialism in intersections of the built environment with migration, urban space, and memory. Readings and film/video encompass historical, ethnographic, visual, architectural and literary materials to offer a broad look at materials on ghettos, empires, cosmopolitanism, tolerance, immigrant enclaves, race and ethnicity.#
&HIST 6554 | Historical and Theoretical Perspectives on Work Law: Race, Gender, and Capital&
#No description available.#
&HIST 6556 | Gender, Race, and Law in Global Political Economy&
#No description available.#
&HIST 6571 | American Defense Policy and Military History from the Two World Wars to the Global War on Terror&
#America is finishing up two wars, one in Iraq and one in Afghanistan. They have been the longest wars in American history and have ended amid much ambivalence about the US engagement in each place and the results. They are part of a series of wars that America has fought as a global power, with a global reach, sending its forces thousands of miles from home. That global reach is not new, and goes back all the way to 1898 and the Spanish-American War. This course will look at the American military experience from our first tentative steps onto the global stage in 1898, to the earth-spanning conflicts of World War I and II, to the nuclear tension of Cold War conflicts, and finish with the current Long War against terrorism, and the conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan.#
&HIST 6629 | The Age of Revolution in Europe and the Caribbean: 1789 to 1815&
#A wave of revolutions swept through Europe and the Caribbean, beginning with the French Revolution (1789-1815) and the Haitian Revolution (1791-1804), and eventually upending traditional laws and societies on both sides of the Atlantic. In the first part of the semester, we will read and discuss books related to these revolutions, and in the second part, students will undertake original research in preparation for writing a substantial research paper related to the theme of the class: either an in-depth study of one revolution or a comparative exploration of revolutionary movements.#
&HIST 6715 | A Global South: Chile, the Pacific and the World&
#No description available.#
&HIST 6920 | Approaches to Medieval Violence&
#'Violence' has become an unavoidable - and urgently troubling - buzzword in contemporary Western culture. We worry about its manifestations and representations in our own civilization, we scan foreign societies with which we interact for any sign of it, we fantasize about consummating it or construct our utopias around its absence. This course is intended as an opportunity for students working on a variety of topics, periods and areas in premodern Europe to investigate its relevance to their own studies. Through an examination of readings on violence in particular historical contexts, from Late Antiquity to the Early Modern period, we will seek to elicit reflection on what is meant by the concept, to prompt consideration of distinctions among forms of violence, and to sample a variety of analytical approaches and tools.#
&HIST 6960 | Transnational Local: Southeast Asian History from the Eighteenth Century&
#Surveys the modern history of Southeast Asia with special attentions to colonialism, the Chinese diaspora, and socio-cultural institutions. Considers global transformations that brought "the West" into people's lives in Southeast Asia. Focuses on the development of the modern nation-state, but also questions the narrative by incorporating groups that are typically excluded. Assigns primary texts in translation.#
&HIST 6963 | China's Early Modern&
#Theories of modernization have inspired, informed, and plagued histories of middle and late imperial China. For the Song-Qing eras (roughly 10th-19th centuries), comparative studies have variously found and sought to explain modernization emerging earlier than in Europe, an absence of modernization, or alternative paths of modernization.  Regional models have argued for pan-East Asian systems and patterns of modernization. Global models have argued that China had a vital role in European development as a provenance of modernizing institutions and ideas, as a source of exploited resources, or otherwise as an integral part of global systems. In this course we explore these historiographical debates and develop critical perspectives, including approaches to escaping Eurocentric and teleological frameworks.#
&HIST 7937 | Proseminar in Peace Studies&
#The Proseminar in Peace Studies offers a multidisciplinary review of issues related to peace and conflict at the graduate level. The course is led by the director of the Judith Reppy Institute for Peace and Conflict Studies and is based on the Institute's weekly seminar series, featuring outside visitors and Cornell faculty.#
&HIST 8004 | Supervised Reading&
#Independent Study based supervised reading with a history faculty/field member.#
&HIST 8010 | Independent Study-PIRIP&
#Independent Study based supervised reading with a history faculty/field member.#


$HUNGR | Hungarian$
&HUNGR 1132 | Elementary Hungarian II&
#In Elementary Hungarian II you will expand your knowledge to include the past tense, the future and the subjunctive/imperative. You will learn three classes of noun stems, how to express completed action vs. ongoing actions, time expressions (clock times, calendars, seasons, weekdays, months) how to express necessity and possibility, and how to use modal verbs. You will be surprised to learn that you can turn cases into pronouns - and you'll do it often.  You will learn the names of body parts and how to talk about (some of) your ailments. You will learn how to speak about using public transportation and how to describe the places you visit.  You will learn about music festivals, other weekend activities and how to ask and give directions. You will also learn to talk about your body, the clothes that cover it and the ailments that may afflict it.#
&HUNGR 1134 | Continuing Hungarian II&
#In Intermediate Hungarian II you will go into greater depth of the Hungarian grammar.  You will learn the intricacies of detailing time and weather expressions.  You will learn how to make new words out of familiar roots - and then make more words out of the new ones.  Finally, you will learn a new style of sentence building that serves to condense the sentence and start you on the path of reading and writing a more advanced/academic prose.  In conjunction with these grammar points you will build on your vocabulary of everyday items, personal descriptions and emotions, and human interaction in a variety of environments.  You will learn to navigate a variety of documents and charts and surveys.  Your reading assignments become more nuanced, culturally induced and persuasive.  By the end of the course, it is hoped that your Hungarian speaking and writing witll be equally nuanced, cultured and persuasive.#
&HUNGR 2104 | Advanced Hungarian II&
#This course aims to serve as both a review of the more advanced grammatical construction of Hungarian and a brief chronological look at 20th century Hungarian literature.  We will read short stories poetry and book chapters that reflect the political, literary, and every-day trends and disturbances of this period.#


$ILRGL | ILR Global Labor & Work$
&ILRGL 1100 | Introduction to U.S. Labor History&
#Introductory survey covering the major changes in the nature of work, the workforce, and the institutions involved in industrial relations from the late 19th century to the present.#
&ILRGL 1200 | Introduction to Disability Studies&
#This course provides an introduction to the field of Disability Studies, in both an academic and applied context, and will examine the issues that affect the inclusion and integration of people with disabilities in the U.S., including: the history and impact of medical and social attitudes toward disability; the legacy and future of the disability rights movement; disability policy and laws, and their effects on workplace, technological, and physical environments; representations of disability in mass media; access to education and employment; and contemporary national efforts to expand the rights and to promote the inclusion of people with disabilities in the workplace, educational domain, and everyday society.​#
&ILRGL 2010 | Labor and Employment Law&
#Survey and analysis of the law governing labor relations and employee rights in the workplace. Half of the course examines the legal framework in which collective bargaining takes place, including union organizational campaigns, negotiations for and enforcement of collective bargaining agreements, and the use of economic pressure. The other half surveys the laws against discrimination based on race, religion, sex, national origin, age, and disability. Also serves as an introduction to judicial and administrative systems.#
&ILRGL 2050 | Labor Relations&
#A comprehensive introduction to the labor relations systems of the United States and other countries. Covers the determinants of bargaining power, the process of labor agreement negotiation and administration, and assessment of the effects that collective representation exerts on economic and social outcomes. Special consideration is given to the increasing importance of new technology and international factors including global supply chains.#
&ILRGL 2210 | Socio-Legal Perspectives on Disability&
#This sophomore writing seminar engages in a critical, in-depth study of the way in which people with disabilities and the disability experience are represented in an array of interdisciplinary texts, with particular emphasis on the legal tradition and interpretations. Drawing from a variety of historical as well as contemporary texts and documents, we will explore the implications of disability in culture and policy, particularly as they impact ideas of citizenship and rights, primarily in the United States, but also globally.  We will examine the history of disability law, looking closely at a number of Supreme Court cases and decisions. We will additionally allow for an intensive focus on the development of critical thought and reasoning in both oral and written communication.#
&ILRGL 2215 | The Law of Care Work&
#The care economy supplies basic needs for individuals and provides the human infrastructure for society, but care work often happens outside the regulated labor market, raising challenges for and beyond work law. How does the law conceptualize, compensate, and regulate care work? How does the law allocate the responsibility and costs of care? How does gender and race factor the law's treatment of care work? This course will examine these questions across various bodies of law, predominantly in the context of the United States. As a writing seminar, this course will develop the student's analytical writing capability through a series of writing assignments designed to break down the writing process into discernable steps, culminating in a longer paper on a topic relevant to this course.#
&ILRGL 2285 | Labor Unions and Informal Workers’ Movements in Latin America&
#This course offers an overview of labor movements and organizations of informal workers in Latin America. It first analyzes the origins and evolution of labor institutions and labor movements in the region and examines existing explanations for their varying trajectories. Second, the course explores the emergence, organizational features, and collective action strategies of organizations and movements of informal workers, including low-income unemployed and rural workers. Some of these movements have emerged or acquired increasing political relevance in recent decades. The course reviews the challenges these groups face in acting together and helps us understand the circumstances under which they emerge and are able to influence state policy. Finally, the course examines when and how labor unions and organizations of informal workers build alliances to advance common interests and explores these alliances' political and social implications.#
&ILRGL 2300 | Introduction to International and Comparative Labor&
#Even through different countries may adopt similar economic strategies, their industrial relations system are generally quite unique, based on the particular institutional histories in each nation. This course is focused on understanding industrial relations systems around the world. Structured on a regional basis (Europe, Middle East and North Africa, Latin America, and Asia), students will appreciate the similarities and differences in industrial relations within each region, and in particular the impact of the design of each national industrial relations system on outcomes for workers, employers, and national governments.#
&ILRGL 2390 | People Power: Resistance, Protest and Revolution&
#The Arab uprisings of 2010/2011 brought renewed attention to the power of ordinary citizens to collectively overthrow their governments. This course introduces theories of collective action, resistance, protest, and revolutions. It addresses the following questions: How do aggrieved citizens make claims against their governments, especially in non-democratic contexts? When and why do people act collectively to make those claims? How do governments respond to various forms of protest? What constitutes a revolution? Why do some succeed and others fail? We pay particular attention to different forms of workers' mobilization and to the role of labor and other social classes in revolutions.#
&ILRGL 3052 | Community Controlled Economic Development&
#The purpose of this course is to provide students with the appropriate academic framework to excel in a supervised fieldwork experience working for a social sector organization through the High Road Fellowships. The multi-disciplinary, place-based background will inform their work projects, enhance their engaged learning as a class and as individuals over the summer, and prepare them for integrating the course work with their field work into a final report of their High Road experience.#
&ILRGL 3055 | Rhetoric of the Labor Movement&
#This course equips students to use different modes of rhetorical analysis to examine historical and contemporary artifacts in critical ways.  Grading is based on class participation, tests and a final paper.  The final paper requires students to identify primary source materials with a connection to either past or present labor movements and apply one or more of these modes of rhetorical criticism as the basis of an unique investigation into a particular labor movement's significant symbolic acts.  Students will be expected to hone their own teaching and public speaking skills by giving at least one major in class presentation.#
&ILRGL 3300 | Advocacy and Debate&
#Students learn the principles of argumentation and debate. Topics emphasize Internet database research, synthesis of collected data, policy analysis, evidentiary quality, refutation of counter claims, identification of logical fallacies, risk evaluation, framing of issues, and coherent storytelling. Prepares students to work with a great range of opinion and evidence. Emphasizes different viewpoints, including those of different cultures. Assumptions are interrogated.#
&ILRGL 3365 | Labor and Social Movements in Latin America&
#Workers, often in alliance with other marginalized groups, have played a major role in shaping modern Latin American politics. This course examines labor-based forms of political representation in Latin America and provides an overview of major historic and contemporary movements across the region, including those that seek to represent and empower traditionally excluded sectors, such as urban and rural workers, informal workers, women, as well as indigenous groups. In this course, students will analyze the conditions that facilitate or inhibit collective mobilization, the connections between various movements and political parties, especially those on the left, and their relationship with the state.#
&ILRGL 3375 | Labor Practices in Global Supply Chains: Multi-Stakeholder Perspectives&
#This course focuses on the evolution, current trajectories, and methods to improve labor practices in global supply chains. We will examine the key issue of why, after 25 years of corporate efforts and intensive consumer activism, there have not been sustainable improvements in labor practices in the global supply chains in the apparel industry.  Taking both a Corporate Social Responsibility, and Global Value Chains perspective, we will examine a range of problems and issues that inhibit sustainability, and explore new innovative developments that show promise.  Several stakeholders from corporations, NGOS, monitoring firms, and/or suppliers will engage with the class, either in person or through videoconferencing. The course will end with an evaluation of approaches that are both innovative and promising.  Students will be expected to write "position papers" on current developments, which will be circulated to multiple stakeholders so that the output from the course is relevant. The course also offers opportunities for students to engage more deeply in research projects that are currently underway.#
&ILRGL 3805 | African American and Latinx Histories&
#We will undertake a comparative study of African American and Latina/o histories, cultures, and politics from the American Revolution to the present. Students will gain understandings of connections between events in the Americas including the abolition of slavery in Latin America and the Caribbean, the Mexican American War, and the US Civil War. We will study ties between US empire and the Jim Crow/Juan Crow systems. We will seek to understand Black and Brown workers' freedom struggles against systemic racism in the Sunbelt, and the roles these workers played in the making of the New Deal, Third World Solidarity, feminism, and the election of the first African American president in US history.#
&ILRGL 3885 | Race and War in History: Workers, Soldiers, Prisoners, Activists&
#Across twentieth-century history, race and war have been dynamic forces in shaping economic organization and everyday livelihoods. This course will approach labor and working-class history, through a focus on global war as well as 'wars at home.' Racial and warfare events often intersect—in the histories of presidents and activists, business leaders and industrial workers, CIA agents and police, soldiers and prisoners, American laborers abroad and non-Americans migrating stateside. In this course, we'll consider how race and war have been linked—from the rise of Jim Crow and U.S. empire in the 1890s, to the WWII 'Greatest Generation' and its diverse workplaces, to Vietnam and the civil rights movement, to the Iraq wars and immigrant workers, to debates about what has been called a 'military-industrial complex' and a 'prison-industrial complex'.#
&ILRGL 4023 | Disability, Employment, and Workforce Development Policy&
#This course provides an overview of state and federal governmental policy and administration that facilitates the inclusion of people with disabilities in the competitive labor market. Topics for the course will include: social security and means-tested entitlements related to disability, workforce development efforts, the state-federal partnership on vocational rehabilitation and training, workers' compensation, return-to-work, competitive integrated employment, and access to healthcare (e.g., Affordable Care Act, Medicaid and Medicare). Students will learn about various "policy experiments" in the United States, from the New Deal to present, as they relate to disability inclusion in the workforce, and will be provided with the tools to critique existing disability and workforce development policy frameworks at both state and national levels to identify areas of improvement and innovation.#
&ILRGL 4027 | Campus Mediation Practicum&
#This course is offered to students interested in acquiring the knowledge, skills and techniques necessary to mediate campus disputes.
 
In the first segment of the course, students will be introduced to the guiding principles of mediation and restorative conferencing. A review of the theories of conflict, its roots and its resolution, set the stage for the role mediation and restorative conferencing can effectively play in resolving conflict.  Students are introduced to the models of mediation and the benefits and challenges of each, including a comparative analysis of evaluative, facilitative, transformative, and restorative justice styles of mediation. 
 
In the second segment, students will be assigned to mediate and facilitate cases referred to the Scheinman Institute from the Office of Student Conduct and Community Standards, as well as other campus partners.  The role of gender, race, culture, ethics and impasse in mediation will all be examined and incorporated into simulations and case studies.  
 
One full credit of this course will be dedicated to restorative justice and mediation experience outside of the classroom. Students will have several opportunities to apply their knowledge of mediation and restorative justice to acquire the skills necessary to become effective mediators and facilitators through on-campus student-based mediations and restorative processes. Following each case assignment, students will be required to provide a reflection and class presentation analyzing the nature of the complaint, the approach and techniques employed during the case and the student's evaluation of what worked and did not work in their attempt to resolve the conflict. Oversight will be provided by the course instructor.#
&ILRGL 4029 | Campus Mediation Practicum II: Advanced Issues in Restorative Justice&
#This course is offered to students interested in furthering their knowledge of the principles and practices of restorative justice. Students will also acquire the knowledge, skills and techniques necessary to mediate complex campus disputes. The course considers the needs and roles of key stakeholders (victims, offenders, communities, justice systems) and explores in depth the principles and values of restorative justice. It also identifies challenges to restorative justice - the dangers, the pitfalls – as well as possible strategies to help prevent restorative justice from failing to live up to its promise. Much of the course is organized around the issue of harm and crime within our legal system. However, students will also be exposed to restorative justice in multiple contexts, including issues in higher education.#
&ILRGL 4033 | Disability Law&
#This course reviews U.S. law related to people with disabilities. Students in this course will learn about the nuances of disability law, including civil rights efforts to increase access to employment, public accommodations, education, and equal political and social participation. The course will review landmark case law from the U.S. Supreme Court and lower courts, and will review key pieces of legislation like the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA), Rehabilitation Act, Genetic Information Nondiscrimination Act (GINA), and Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA). Key topics will include nondiscrimination in the workplace, access to the political process, and access to justice and due process for people with disabilities. Because this is a law course, students will also learn how to read judicial opinions, interpret precedent, develop and structure legal memoranda, and engage in effective/convincing legal writing and analysis.#
&ILRGL 4040 | Contract Administration&
#Focuses on the practice, nature, and challenges of union representation under collective bargaining agreements. Working with union contracts, constitutions, and by-laws from a diversity of national and local public- and private-sector agreements, the course examines how U.S. unions represent their members in different industries and different collective bargaining environments. Issues addressed include union representative/steward rights and responsibilities, contract enforcement structures and practice, access to information, new work systems, hours of work and scheduling, contingent staffing arrangements, workplace discrimination, health and safety, promotional opportunities, downsizing, leadership development, membership involvement and commitment, internal organizing, community coalition building, and decertification campaigns. Students practice hands-on work in interpreting contract language and preparing and presenting grievances and unfair labor practices using agreements from local unions. Students also have the opportunity to engage with local unions on resolving a real contract administration issue for that local.#
&ILRGL 4066 | Technological Change at Work&
#Computers and digital technologies including robotics, machine learning, artificial intelligence (AI), internet-enabled platforms, and other "high-tech" drivers of automation have revolutionized the nature and organization of work in the U.S., with material implications for workers and their families, among others. This upper-level seminar begins with a rhetorical inquiry into whether and when the technological change engendered by digitization and the so-called "Information Technology (IT) Revolution" benefits workers. We then consider the broader impact of recent technological advances on manufacturing and fabrication, low- and semi-skilled service work, i.e., restaurant servers and bus drivers, and even on expert and professional work like that to which most of you presumably aspire. Among the central themes is the notion that technology does not unilaterally act upon workers, their employers, or society-at-large. Rather, workers, managers, customers, institutions, and policymakers shape which advances take hold and which do not, the ways that these technologies are deployed in the workplace, and the ways that society can actively mitigate the costs to technological advancement while harnessing its benefits.#
&ILRGL 4337 | Labor and Employment in the Middle East and North Africa&
#This course introduces students to the history, evolution and trajectory of state-labor relations, labor activism, and the politics of unemployment in the Middle East and North Africa (MENA). As the region with the highest concentration of non-democratic regimes in the world, the MENA provides a rich context for examining state efforts to control interest representation, and workers' struggles for freedom of association. In addition, the region features diverse political economic systems, making it ideal for examining the interaction between resource endowments and labor market dynamics. Finally, the region is ripe for the study of youth activism and the mobilization of the unemployed given that youth unemployment rates are higher in the MENA than any other world region.#
&ILRGL 4352 | From Social Goods to Private Gain: Healthcare in the Age of Financialization&
#Financialization is a process in which financial actors increasingly dominate the US economy. While it is occurring across most industries, it has penetrated the US healthcare sector at an alarming rate. Historically, public and non-profit healthcare providers had a patient care mission, but increasingly, large for-profit corporations and Wall Street investors are dominant players. How do these changes affect the quality of jobs, job security, patient care, and equal access to care? This course examines these issues from a multi-stakeholder perspective. It is interdisciplinary – drawing on readings, cases, and guest speakers from political science, sociology, industrial relations, health economics, and public health. It examines the intersection between regulatory policies, financial actors, and healthcare outcomes. Part I considers macro-level changes in regulatory policies that have facilitated change. Part II focuses on the dynamics of conflict and change in particular healthcare arenas, including hospitals, nursing homes, mental health, big pharma, HealthIT, and others. Part III examines the evidence on outcomes for healthcare workers, patients, and providers -- and how labor and patient advocacy groups have responded. This provides the basis for class debates on organizational and public policy options for reform.#
&ILRGL 4377 | Issues in South Asian Studies&
#This is an events-based course. Students will attend ten seminars in the South Asia Program seminar series. The work of scholars, filmmakers, and artists presenting research in the series spans the region and its diasporas (e.g., India, Pakistan, Nepal, Bangladesh, Afghanistan, Bhutan, and Indian Ocean worlds). Topics considered will cross the humanities, social sciences, and natural sciences. Students will attend these events and engage with the material presented in short response papers and supplemental readings. The objective of this course is to offer students, whether they are familiar with the region or not, new perspectives on the lived experiences of South Asia. Students will also become familiar with interdisciplinary area studies as an intellectual project.#
&ILRGL 4825 | The Art of Negotiation in Business and Sports&
#In this course, we will study negotiation techniques and develop strategies to be effectively executed in business, sports, and everyday endeavors. We will break down some of the most controversial issues in the sports industry, predominately with the NCAA and the NFL. We will use these controversial topics as the subjects to practice and execute learned negotiation strategies. Students will participate in live simulated negotiation settings conducted in the campus broadcast/media studio rooms. Students are able to understand and improve their skills through practical training with constant guidance, feedback, and extensive self-evaluation assessments. Through in-depth simulation and experiential learning exercises, students are also able to implement collaborative problem-solving techniques. Lastly, this course implements both formative and summative assessment methods in its curriculum to measure and improve student learning and provide meaningful feedback to students.#
&ILRGL 4842 | Employment Discrimination and the Law&
#This course explores the role of law in prohibiting employment discrimination based on characteristics that include race, sex, gender, national origin, religion, age, and disability. This study will analyze the development of employment discrimination law toward greater inclusion, for example, expanding protection to include a socially-defined concept of "gender" rather than a biologically defined concept of "sex". The course will also analyze the gaps that remain in providing broad and effective protection against discrimination in the workplace and the difficulties individuals and groups face in bringing legal claims.#
&ILRGL 4845 | Labor, Race, and Gender&
#The majority of existing union members are women and workers of color, and, since the mid-1980s, the majority of newly organized workers have been women of color, particularly black women and recent immigrants from Latin America. Yet, with the exception of just a handful of unions, the labor movement still has been slow to build on this support and enthusiasm. This course will focus on the challenges and possibilities created by the changing demographics of race and gender in the contemporary labor movement. Through a combination of readings, small group discussions, guest speakers, and library and online research, short essays and one longer research paper; the course will examine these issues from an historical, demographic, labor relations, and sociological perspective.#
&ILRGL 4880 | The Mind of The Founders&
#The moral and intellectual origins of the American constitution.#
&ILRGL 4940 | ILR Global Scholars Capstone&
#This capstone course is open to ILR Global Scholars (GS) during their last semester of their senior year. The course is designed for GS to incorporate their education and experience abroad with the concepts and theories they have gained while at the ILR School. The overarching goal of this class is to bring GS together to collectively reflect on and identify key aspects of intercultural competency related to their personal and cultural growth, academic and professional development and roles as future global citizens. The structure of the course will be group discussions, peer review, and individual reflection papers. The final capstone reflection paper will fulfill the course requirement and the Global Scholars Program final reflection requirement.#
&ILRGL 5010 | Labor and Employment Law&
#Survey and analysis of the law governing labor relations and employee rights in the workplace. The first half of the course is devoted to labor law and labor-management relations. It examines the legal framework for workers' trade union organizing efforts, collective bargaining, and strikes and lockouts. The second half of the course turns to employment law outside the collective bargaining context.  It covers such topics as occupational health and safety, workers' compensation, employment discrimination, "at-will" versus "just cause" rules for dismissing employees, non-competition and mandatory arbitration agreements, and other aspects of the individual employer-employee relationship. Also serves as an introduction to judicial and administrative systems.#
&ILRGL 5315 | Graduate Seminar - Writing a Research Proposal&
#This course is for MS and PhD students, intended to guide students through the process of developing research proposals during the first year of graduate study. Classes meet for 75 minutes every week during the semester. Readings, course work, and class discussions will be organized around formulating and refining research questions and hypotheses, building literature reviews, and designing appropriate research methods. Students will submit a complete research proposal at the conclusion of the course.#
&ILRGL 5365 | Labor and Social Movements in Latin America&
#Workers, often in alliance with other marginalized groups, have played a major role in shaping modern Latin American politics. This course examines labor-based forms of political representation in Latin America and provides an overview of major historic and contemporary movements across the region, including those that seek to represent and empower traditionally excluded sectors, such as urban and rural workers, informal workers, women, as well as indigenous groups. In this course, students will analyze the conditions that facilitate or inhibit collective mobilization, the connections between various movements and political parties, especially those on the left, and their relationship with the state.#
&ILRGL 5375 | Labor Practices in Global Supply Chains: Multi-Stakeholder Perspectives&
#This course focuses on the evolution, current trajectories, and methods to improve labor practices in global supply chains. We will examine the key issue of why, after 25 years of corporate efforts and intensive consumer activism, there have not been sustainable improvements in labor practices in the global supply chains in the apparel industry. Taking both a Corporate Social Responsibility, and Global Value Chains perspective, we will examine a range of problems and issues that inhibit sustainability, and explore new innovative developments that show promise. Several stakeholders from corporations, NGOS, monitoring firms, and/or suppliers will engage with the class, either in person or through videoconferencing. The course will end with an evaluation of approaches that are both innovative and promising. Students will be expected to write "position papers" on current developments, which will be circulated to multiple stakeholders so that the output from the course is relevant. The course also offers opportunities for students to engage more deeply in research projects that are currently underway.#
&ILRGL 6027 | Campus Mediation Practicum&
#This course is offered to students interested in acquiring the knowledge, skills and techniques necessary to mediate campus disputes.
 
In the first segment of the course, students will be introduced to the guiding principles of mediation and restorative conferencing. A review of the theories of conflict, its roots and its resolution, set the stage for the role mediation and restorative conferencing can effectively play in resolving conflict.  Students are introduced to the models of mediation and the benefits and challenges of each, including a comparative analysis of evaluative, facilitative, transformative, and restorative justice styles of mediation. 
 
In the second segment, students will be assigned to mediate and facilitate cases referred to the Scheinman Institute from the Office of Student Conduct and Community Standards, as well as other campus partners.  The role of gender, race, culture, ethics and impasse in mediation will all be examined and incorporated into simulations and case studies.  
 
One full credit of this course will be dedicated to restorative justice and mediation experience outside of the classroom. Students will have several opportunities to apply their knowledge of mediation and restorative justice to acquire the skills necessary to become effective mediators and facilitators through on-campus student-based mediations and restorative processes. Following each case assignment, students will be required to provide a reflection and class presentation analyzing the nature of the complaint, the approach and techniques employed during the case and the student's evaluation of what worked and did not work in their attempt to resolve the conflict. Oversight will be provided by the course instructor.#
&ILRGL 6029 | Campus Mediation Practicum II: Advanced Issues in Restorative Justice&
#This course is offered to students interested in furthering their knowledge of the principles and practices of restorative justice. Students will also acquire the knowledge, skills and techniques necessary to mediate complex campus disputes. The course considers the needs and roles of key stakeholders (victims, offenders, communities, justice systems) and explores in depth the principles and values of restorative justice. It also identifies challenges to restorative justice - the dangers, the pitfalls – as well as possible strategies to help prevent restorative justice from failing to live up to its promise. Much of the course is organized around the issue of harm and crime within our legal system. However, students will also be exposed to restorative justice in multiple contexts, including issues in higher education.#
&ILRGL 6033 | Disability Law&
#This course reviews U.S. law related to people with disabilities. Students in this course will learn about the nuances of disability law, including civil rights efforts to increase access to employment, public accommodations, education, and equal political and social participation. The course will review landmark case law from the U.S. Supreme Court and lower courts, and will review key pieces of legislation like the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA), Rehabilitation Act, Genetic Information Nondiscrimination Act (GINA), and Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA). Key topics will include nondiscrimination in the workplace, access to the political process, and access to justice and due process for people with disabilities. Because this is a law course, students will also learn how to read judicial opinions, interpret precedent, develop and structure legal memoranda, and engage in effective/convincing legal writing and analysis.#
&ILRGL 6044 | Contract Administration&
#Focuses on the practice, nature, and challenges of union representation under collective bargaining agreements. Working with union contracts, constitutions, and by-laws from a diversity of national and local public- and private-sector agreements, the course examines how U.S. unions represent their members in different industries and different collective bargaining environments. Issues addressed include union representative/steward rights and responsibilities, contract enforcement structures and practice, access to information, new work systems, hours of work and scheduling, contingent staffing arrangements, workplace discrimination, health and safety, promotional opportunities, downsizing, leadership development, membership involvement and commitment, internal organizing, community coalition building, and decertification campaigns. Students practice hands-on work in interpreting contract language and preparing and presenting grievances and unfair labor practices using agreements from local unions. Students also have the opportunity to engage with local unions on resolving a real contract administration issue for that local.#
&ILRGL 6066 | Technological Change at Work&
#Computers and digital technologies including robotics, machine learning, artificial intelligence (AI), internet-enabled platforms, and other "high-tech" drivers of automation have revolutionized the nature and organization of work in the U.S., with material implications for workers and their families, among others. This upper-level seminar begins with a rhetorical inquiry into whether and when the technological change engendered by digitization and the so-called "Information Technology (IT) Revolution" benefits workers. We then consider the broader impact of recent technological advances on manufacturing and fabrication, low- and semi-skilled service work, i.e., restaurant servers and bus drivers, and even on expert and professional work like that to which most of you presumably aspire. Among the central themes is the notion that technology does not unilaterally act upon workers, their employers, or society-at-large. Rather, workers, managers, customers, institutions, and policymakers shape which advances take hold and which do not, the ways that these technologies are deployed in the workplace, and the ways that society can actively mitigate the costs to technological advancement while harnessing its benefits.#
&ILRGL 6189 | Current Issues in Collective Bargaining&
#This advanced level mini-course examines several key issues in today's collective bargaining between US private sector employers and unions. Through extensive pre-class readings and podcasts, and during four 3 hour classes, we will trace key developments that have set the table for today's bargaining environment, eg., the deindustrialization of the American economy, the decline of union workforce density, and the rise of defensive collective bargaining; examine resultant wage stagnation and troubled health care and defined benefit pension plans; investigate the effects and intersection of employment law and legislation on collective bargaining and dispute resolution; and consider the emerging arena of unionization in higher education.#
&ILRGL 6300 | Advocacy and Debate&
#Students learn the principles of argumentation and debate. Topics emphasize Internet database research, synthesis of collected data, policy analysis, evidentiary quality, refutation of counter claims, identification of logical fallacies, risk evaluation, framing of issues, and coherent storytelling.  Prepares students to work with a great range of opinion and evidence.   
Emphasizes different viewpoints, including those of different cultures.  Assumptions are interrogated.#
&ILRGL 6337 | Labor and Employment in the Middle East and North Africa&
#This course introduces students to the history, evolution and trajectory of state-labor relations, labor activism, and the politics of unemployment in the Middle East and North Africa (MENA). As the region with the highest concentration of non-democratic regimes in the world, the MENA provides a rich context for examining state efforts to control interest representation, and workers' struggles for freedom of association. In addition, the region features diverse political economic systems, making it ideal for examining the interaction between resource endowments and labor market dynamics. Finally, the region is ripe for the study of youth activism and the mobilization of the unemployed given that youth unemployment rates are higher in the MENA than any other world region.#
&ILRGL 6377 | Issues in South Asian Studies&
#This is an events-based course. Students will attend ten seminars in the South Asia Program seminar series. The work of scholars, filmmakers, and artists presenting research in the series spans the region and its diasporas (e.g., India, Pakistan, Nepal, Bangladesh, Afghanistan, Bhutan, and Indian Ocean worlds). Topics considered will cross the humanities, social sciences, and natural sciences. Students will attend these events and engage with the material presented in short response papers and supplemental readings. The objective of this course is to offer students, whether they are familiar with the region or not, new perspectives on the lived experiences of South Asia. Students will also become familiar with interdisciplinary area studies as an intellectual project.#
&ILRGL 6825 | The Art of Negotiation in Business and Sports&
#In this course, we will study negotiation techniques and develop strategies to be effectively executed in business, sports, and everyday endeavors. We will break down some of the most controversial issues in the sports industry, predominately with the NCAA and the NFL. We will use these controversial topics as the subjects to practice and execute learned negotiation strategies. Students will participate in live simulated negotiation settings conducted in the campus broadcast/media studio rooms. Students are able to understand and improve their skills through practical training with constant guidance, feedback, and extensive self-evaluation assessments. Through in-depth simulation and experiential learning exercises, students are also able to implement collaborative problem-solving techniques. Lastly, this course implements both formative and summative assessment methods in its curriculum to measure and improve student learning and provide meaningful feedback to students.#
&ILRGL 6840 | Employment Discrimination and the Law&
#This course explores the role of law in prohibiting employment discrimination based on characteristics that include race, sex, gender, national origin, religion, age, and disability. This study will analyze the development of employment discrimination law toward greater inclusion, for example, expanding protection to include a socially-defined concept of "gender" rather than a biologically defined concept of "sex". The course will also analyze the gaps that remain in providing broad and effective protection against discrimination in the workplace and the difficulties individuals and groups face in bringing legal claims.#
&ILRGL 6845 | Labor, Race, and Gender&
#The majority of existing union members are women and workers of color, and, since the mid-1980s, the majority of newly organized workers have been women of color, particularly black women and recent immigrants from Latin America. Yet, with the exception of just a handful of unions, the labor movement still has been slow to build on this support and enthusiasm. This course will focus on the challenges and possibilities created by the changing demographics of race and gender in the contemporary labor movement. Through a combination of readings, small group discussions, guest speakers, and library and online research, short essays and one longer research paper; the course will examine these issues from an historical, demographic, labor relations, and sociological perspective.#
&ILRGL 7070 | Seminar on Conflict and Dispute Resolution&
#Conflict and its management in organizations has received a great deal of scholarly attention within a number of disciplinary domains including industrial relations, law, organizational behavior, sociology and economics. Interestingly, insights from this research are rarely integrated across disciplinary boundaries. In an effort to synthesize and integrate scholarly insights and findings this course will examine the interdisciplinary research on conflict and conflict management. As such readings for the course will be drawn from a range of fields and perspectives, including industrial relations, human resources, organizational behavior, psychology and sociology, reflecting the diverse approaches taken to the study of conflict and its management in organizations.#


$ILRHR | Human Resource Studies$
&ILRHR 2260 | Nonprofits, Philanthropy, and Social Enterprises&
#This sophomore writing seminar provides an introduction to and overview of the nonprofit sector in the U.S. We will trace the emergence and evolution of the non-profit sector and examine how public policy and economics interact to shape it in different eras. We will explore the strategic, governance, and managerial issues facing contemporary nonprofit organizations. We will also examine alternatives to traditional charities including social enterprises, venture philanthropy and impact investing. Students will be introduced to core operational issues faced by nonprofit leaders including development/fundraising, grant acquisition, donor relations, and impact assessment. Case examples will include a range of organizations and social topics across education, social services, health care, religion, environmental stewardship, arts and culture. Students will engage in a variety of research and writing activities including outreach letters, case analyses, and research reports.#
&ILRHR 4607 | Executive Compensation and Corporate Governance&
#This course examines the process by which executive incentives are created and the implications of those decisions on corporate effectiveness. Executive compensation is a very significant investment made by all corporations and how it is designed and delivered will impact the effectiveness of the organization and drive its ability to serve all of its stakeholders including employees, communities, suppliers, and customers in addition to shareholders. We will discuss the relative role, interests, and power of such entities as Institutional Shareholders, the Board, the Executives themselves, Regulators, the Press, Advisors, and rank-and-file employees in shaping the level and design of executive compensation. We will analyze how performance is measured and rewarded and discuss how those choices will impact executive decision making. We will pay special attention to the role of ESG in setting corporate priorities as reflected in the choice of performance metrics.  In this course, you will come to understand the various forms of short and long-term incentives and the process by which they are benchmarked and administered. We will examine how these practices differ between public, private, and ventured owned companies. This course will be useful for those who aspire to participate in and/or oversee such programs as well as those who will administer them as a finance, an accounting, or a human resources professional. Each student will learn how to examine and analyze both proxy and financial statements.#
&ILRHR 4645 | People and Profits: HR Strategies for Good Jobs&
#Economic, social, technological, and political upheaval are transforming the workplace. HR professionals play a crucial role in shaping how these transformations play out and must be equipped to balance a variety of competing interests. In this course, we will debate whether those who manage people must choose between running a profitable business and treating their employees well. We will identify the most pressing HR issues inside organizations, ranging from burnout and workplace flexibility to earnings inequality and career mobility. Drawing on insights from case studies, cutting-edge research, and guest speakers, we will survey how certain organizations are able to provide good jobs while remaining competitive. Students will come away with a menu of practices and policies that benefit both business and employee outcomes.#
&ILRHR 5607 | Executive Compensation&
#This course will provide students with an overview of the design, structure, purpose, and "fairness" of executive compensation as seen from the perspective of all stakeholders including executives, other employees, regulators, board members, institutional shareholders, independent advisors, and the independent press. We will pay special attention to the role of ESG in setting corporate priorities as reflected in the choice of performance metrics. Students will learn the structure of all components of executive pay (including base pay, annual incentives, performance plans, and equity-based pay), understand how performance and pay levels are determined, and investigate how the various stakeholders interact in the decision-making process. The course will examine each critical decision made in the executive pay determination process to uncover why decisions are made and the leverage applied by each of the constituent parties. The course will also examine the linkages between executive compensation, corporate governance, and business strategy as well as the issues surrounding compliance with securities laws, tax regulations, accounting standards, and corporate governance. Lectures will be supplemented with guest speakers representing the stakeholder groups.#
&ILRHR 5618 | The Financialization of US Healthcare: Challenges for Providers, Managers, and Policymakers&
#Financialization is a process in which financial actors and the finance sector increasingly dominate the US economy. While it is occurring across most industries, it has penetrated the US healthcare sector at an alarming rate. The sector, historically organized by public and non-profit providers with a patient care mission, is increasingly dominated by large for-profit corporations, Wall Street investors, and Venture Capital HealthIT firms. How do these changes affect human resource and care management practices? To what extent do public policies need to be adjusted? This course examines these issues from a multi-stakeholder perspective. It is interdisciplinary – drawing on readings, cases, and guest speakers from HR management and employment relations, health economics, political science, and public health. Part I considers macro-level changes in the economy and regulatory policies that have facilitated change. Part II focuses on the dynamics of change in particular healthcare arenas, including hospitals, nursing homes, mental health, big pharma, HealthIT, and others. Part III examines outcomes for healthcare employees, patients, and providers – providing a basis for class debates on managerial and public policy options.#
&ILRHR 5620 | HR Leadership: Views from the Top&
#Hands-on course offering students a unique opportunity to learn and develop key competencies required of HR leaders. The course will focus on developing an understanding of the role and responsibilities of modern HR leaders, and exploration of the key competencies tied to successful performance as an HR leader. The course will be taught in partnership with current or former Chief HR officers and will include the exploration of topics including setting and driving an HR strategy, coaching and influencing line leaders, setting and driving organizational culture, HR's role in mergers and acquisitions, and driving change. Students will apply learnings from lectures and readings to complete an individual project related to how they will make a positive impact as a leader in the organization that they will work for after the semester. The goal of the course is to provide students with a model of HR leadership, learning on key competencies, and a personal development plan to prepare themselves to become HR leaders.#
&ILRHR 5930 | Training and Development in Organizations&
#Acquaints students with aspects of learning in organizations. Begins by discussing organizational learning and then focuses more narrowly on specific ways in which learning is achieved through the training and development functions. Topics include how learning is linked to organizational strategy, how to determine that training is needed, issues regarding the design of training programs, current training techniques, evaluation strategies, and management development practices.#
&ILRHR 6451 | Leadership Assessment for Managers&
#This is a leadership course for those of us who want to learn more about ourselves and about others: how we, with our unique styles, influence and lead others, as peers, as direct reports, as supervisors and managers, and as leaders. Through discussions and skills practice, we learn what we do well and what we might improve so that we become even more effective: not only effective at getting results but also effective at building, maintaining, and even improving relationships. Grow your leadership skills in two ways: through increased self-awareness and interactions with other students. 1. Increase self-awareness: Our course provides you with feedback from your peers, direct reports, and/or supervisors and uses tools like behavior assessments to explore your preferences. The course asks you, through assignments and self-reflection, to consider who you are, what you value, and how you got to where you are in life and work. 2. Learn from (and improve) how we interact with others.  We each bring with us a unique set of experiences to our work: experiences that have shaped what we value; how we think; and how we approach relationships, problems, and tasks. Our course helps us to learn leadership by understanding other individuals. We use small-group discussions and team assignments to help you learn from others and adapt to others' styles and preferences.#
&ILRHR 6620 | Organization and Work Design&
#This course provides students with a detailed understanding of the critical importance of organizational design and the unique leadership role the HR function can play in using organizational design tools to influence successful business outcomes. The course will provide a combination of theory, practical application and case studies. In addition to the technical aspects of organizational design, the course also covers the cultural and human success factors in delivering complex organizational change. The lecture and classroom discussions, exercises, and final paper are intended to help students further strengthen their competencies and knowledge tied to HR strategy and organizational design.#
&ILRHR 6640 | HR Research for Executive Decision-Making&
#Develops key HR competencies and skills for researching and presenting information necessary for executive decision making. The first several weeks cover the application of the design thinking model to the research process through instruction and hands-on experience. Following that, students act as consultants in a combined classroom and workplace setting as they work on special projects and topics posed by HR executives of primarily Fortune 500 companies. These team-based assignments give students exposure to different companies, their cultures, and executives while providing real work experience. Interviewing skills, report writing, and presentation methods are also covered.#
&ILRHR 6645 | People and Profits: HR Strategies for Good Jobs&
#Economic, social, technological, and political upheaval are transforming the workplace. HR professionals play a crucial role in shaping how these transformations play out and must be equipped to balance a variety of competing interests. In this course, we will debate whether those who manage people must choose between running a profitable business and treating their employees well. We will identify the most pressing HR issues inside organizations, ranging from burnout and workplace flexibility to earnings inequality and career mobility. Drawing on insights from case studies, cutting-edge research, and guest speakers, we will survey how certain organizations are able to provide good jobs while remaining competitive. Students will come away with a menu of practices and policies that benefit both business and employee outcomes.#
&ILRHR 9610 | Doctoral Research Seminar in Human Resource Management - Micro&
#Aimed at reading, understanding, and conducting research in HRM. Students should obtain thorough understanding of the current research in traditional areas of HRM such as validation, job analysis, EEO, selection, performance appraisal, compensation, and training, and should develop the skills necessary to evaluate, criticize, and contribute to the literature on HRM.#


$ILRID | Industrial and Labor Relations Interdepartmental$
&ILRID 1535 | Sociology of Work and Organizations&
#This introductory course examines key processes shaping the nature of work and structure of organizations.  Throughout, we foreground the distinctiveness of a sociological approach, one that understands work and broader social processes as mutually constitutive dynamics. Using this lens, we also assess the functioning of labor markets and organizations. Central topics include the emergence of wage labor, exploitation and labor control, technology and work, inequality, human and social capital, organizational culture, structure, and institutions.#
&ILRID 2510 | Foundations of Diversity Dynamics&
#The purpose of this course is to introduce you to core concepts related to diversity and inclusion. We will begin with an exploration of social identities and how they relate to key psycho-social processes –such as social cognition, power and privilege, stereotyping, and status differentiation – underlying interpersonal and intergroup dynamics in settings characterized by demographic diversity. We will then turn to an analysis of remedies or interventions for addressing diversity-related challenges and unpack what is meant by "equity and inclusion." A guiding assumption for this course is that in order to fully understand the implications of diversity for society, you must personally confront issues having to do with power, privilege, stereotypes, identity, and discrimination. In an effort to increase awareness and understanding, we will adopt an experiential approach whenever possible, including videos and related discussions, experiential exercises and activities, fieldwork, and written assignments.#
&ILRID 2610 | Intergroup Dialogue&
#Intergroup dialogue is a form of communication specifically designed for people to engage with one another across social, cultural, and power differences in a critical and meaningful way. This class prepares students to live and work in a diverse world, and educates them in making choices that advance equity. Its main objectives are to: explore our human capacity and need to connect with ourselves and others; increase understanding of personal and social identities and how they inform our lives; explore the effects of social inequity at personal, interpersonal, and structural levels (including the ways in which it disrupts human connection); develop students' skills to communicate, work, and lead effectively across difference; and strengthen individual and collective capacities to strategize for change on campus and beyond.#
&ILRID 2660 | Essential Desktop Applications&
#Provides skills in the use of personal computers that run the Windows operating system. Covers fundamental technical concepts and time-saving techniques for Windows, and Microsoft Excel, Access, and PowerPoint. Emphasizes hands-on experience and development of PC-based solutions and strategies by using examples that address human resource and other practical real-world issues. Students will take the industry-recognized Microsoft test to gain certification as a Microsoft Office Specialist (MOS) in Excel. The skills developed in this course are useful prerequisites for several elective courses in human resource management and essential in the 21st-century workplace.#
&ILRID 3550 | Engaged Learning in ILR&
#Undergraduate engaged learning courses whose topic changes depending on semester and instructor. Some topics may have a field trip component added.#
&ILRID 4699 | Advanced Desktop Applications&
#This course will incorporate advanced topics in Microsoft Excel and Access. The Excel portion will focus on advanced use of functions, creating form controls, macros, pivot tables, and organization and analysis of large data sets to incorporate into a model. The Access portion will focus on integrated use with Excel and complex relationships and queries.#
&ILRID 4826 | Leading Dialogue Across Difference: Practicum in Intergroup Relations&
#Through theoretical and experiential learning, students in EDUC 4826 will further develop knowledge and skills gained in EDUC 2610 for leadership across social, cultural, and political differences. Through weekly seminar sessions, students gain a working knowledge of scholarly literature drawn from the fields of critical intergroup dialogue, practice theory, social identity theory, and social justice education. Students learn about the theories and empirical evidence on why and how communication and collaboration across difference work. Moreover, through unique experiential learning opportunities in the classroom, students practice communication and collaboration across difference, as well as facilitation skills fundamental to leading intergroup dialogue processes.#
&ILRID 6990 | Advanced Desktop Applications&
#This course will incorporate advanced topics in Microsoft Excel and Access. The Excel portion will focus on advanced use of functions, creating form controls, macros, pivot tables, and organization and analysis of large data sets to incorporate into a model. The Access portion will focus on integrated use with Excel and complex relationships and queries.#


$ILRLE | Labor Economics$
&ILRLE 2400 | Economics of Wages and Employment&
#Applies the theory and elementary tools of economics to the characteristics and problems of the labor market. Considers both the demand (employer) and supply (employee) sides of the market to gain a deeper understanding of the effects of various government programs and private decisions targeted at the labor market. Topics include employment demand, basic compensation determination, education and training, benefits and the structure of compensation, labor-force participation and its relation to household production, occupational choice, migration, labor-market discrimination, and the effects of unions.#
&ILRLE 3280 | Introduction to Political Economy for Public Policy&
#This course will provide an overview of recent empirical research in political economy, which applies the toolbox of economic and econometric analysis to the study of politics. The focus will be on the politics of the policymaking process.  It will cover the following topics: (1) Voters' behavior; (2) Politicians' behavior; (3) Information and mass media; (4) Political distortions and capture; (5) Political institutions. The course will be based on the reading of research papers and the in-depth discussion of their implications for public policy.#
&ILRLE 3445 | Inequality in U.S. Higher Education&
#Is the U.S. college system a great equalizer or a cause of growing inequality? Improved access to higher education has brought millions of Americans into the middle class, and yet rising selectivity has meant that a disproportionate share of the economic elite come from a few top colleges. This course will explore the three big parts of the college experience --- (1) admissions and the college-going decision; (2) education while in college; and (3) college completion and labor market entry --- and ask how each part contributes to inequality in economic outcomes. Lectures and readings will focus on simple economic theories of higher education as well as the empirical methods used to test these theories.#
&ILRLE 3475 | Visualizing Economics: Introducing Basic Economic Concepts with Visual Arts&
#This course proposes a new and innovative approach to learning about economics. If you want to learn in a different manner, if you are attracted to visualizations in general, this course is for you. This course will challenge preconceptions about what economics is. The goal is to use visual arts to illustrate basic economic concepts that are general, and demonstrate how these tools can be used to analyze and understand a variety of human and social phenomena. The idea of using arts to teach a non-arts related topic stems from recent research in neurology suggesting that creative arts aid learning and memorizing. The course focuses on the core concepts and ideas in economics and is meant to be widely accessible.#
&ILRLE 4430 | Compensation, Incentives, and Productivity&
#Examines topics in labor economics of particular relevance to individual managers and firms. Representative topics include recruitment, screening, and hiring strategies; compensation (including retirement pensions and other benefits); training, turnover, and the theory of human capital; incentive schemes and promotions; layoffs, downsizing, and buyouts; teamwork; and internal labor markets. Focuses on labor-related business problems using the analytic tools of economic theory and should appeal to students with strong quantitative skills who are contemplating careers in general business, consulting, and human resource management as well as in economics.#
&ILRLE 5400 | Labor Economics&
#This is a course in labor market economics for prospective managers in the corporate, union, not-for-profit, and public sectors. The course begins with demand and supply in labor markets, presenting the tools of decision analysis for workers and firms. It then goes on to consider various topics in workplace management including deciding on the optimal mix of capital and labor to employ, attracting and retaining talent, pay and productivity, hiring and training investments, and using strategic budget constraints. The final section of the course covers other important labor market issues including analysis of public policies, unemployment, discrimination, poverty and inequality, and pensions and Social Security.#
&ILRLE 7455 | Local Labor Markets: Disparities and Remedies&
#Since the 1980s, American cities have exhibited increasingly divergent trends. This "Great Divergence" has had profound effects on local employment, income, political preferences, health outcomes, and intergenerational mobility. As more detailed data become available, recent research seeks to uncover the causes of this divergence and evaluate how policy interventions might mitigate its negative effects. Building on this research, this course explores recent advancements at the crossroads of labor and spatial economics. It begins by examining the growing disparities between cities and regions in terms of productivity, labor market opportunities, and amenities, in several countries. It then investigates the rationale behind place-based policies and their potential to stimulate local development. Finally, the course will provide students with essential tools and theories to study the sorting of workers and firms over space and to understand its implications for economic growth and inequality.#
&ILRLE 7460 | Seminar in Labor Economics II&
#Includes reading and discussion of selected topics in labor economics. Stresses applications of economic theory and econometrics to the labor market and human resource areas.#
&ILRLE 9400 | Workshop in Labor Economics&
#Research workshop featuring guests lecturers. Presentations of completed papers and work in progress by faculty members, advanced graduate students, and speakers from other universities. Focuses on the formulation, design, and execution of dissertations.#


$ILROB | Organizational Behavior$
&ILROB 3760 | Sport Psychology&
#In this course, we will discuss research by sport psychologists and other social scientists on behavior in sport settings at the individual, team, and organizational level, with an emphasis on factors that lead to high performance. Topics include psychological characteristics of top performers, methods of performance enhancement, group dynamics and processes, effective leadership practices, and the effects of stereotyping on sport participation and performance. We will examine why, in light of this research, certain athletes, teams, and organizations are successful or unsuccessful.#
&ILROB 4225 | The Impact of Culture and Diversity in Professional Sports Organizations&
#This course focuses on making the business case, or not, for diversity, equity and inclusion ("DEI"), within the major professional sports organizations, (i.e., the National Football League ("NFL"), National Basketball Association ("NBA"), Major League Baseball ("MLB"), National Hockey League ("NHL") and Major League Soccer ("MLS").#
&ILROB 4260 | Managing for Creativity&
#Creative ideas are widely touted as a source of competitive advantage available to workers and organizations. At the same time, creativity can be difficult to manage in a systematic way and organizations often fall short of their creative goals. This course is about how to manage creativity – both yours and in others. We will review theories of creativity, with a focus on (1) how to generate creative ideas and (2) on how to gain support for (i.e., sell) those ideas. We will discuss theoretical frameworks, case studies, and current examples with the goal of distinguishing between effective and ineffective strategies. You will develop skills related to making and selling ideas that you can implement in your organization, use to further your career, or to build value in any endeavor that runs on good ideas. A note to set expectations: This is a course about how to generate creative ideas and build support for those ideas. This course will not teach you how to start a business or secure VC funding.#
&ILROB 4640 | Business Strategy&
#The ability to create and evaluate business strategies is a critical skill for leaders in organizations of all types. This course introduces concepts and tools to help students develop an understanding of how strategies are formed and managed, and how competitive advantage may be created and sustained. We discuss different business models, the importance of customers, how to assess an organization's resources and capabilities, and how to adapt to changes in the competitive environment. Creating a business strategy is a fun, interactive process; the class is designed to mirror this by using real-world case studies, supplemented by a mix of in-class activities and interactive lectures. The course concludes with a series of case competitions, including a final competition judged by a panel of external experts.#
&ILROB 4760 | Morality at Work&
#In this course, we will review fundamental principles of moral psychology and apply these principles to organizational contexts. Drawing from real-world cases, such as the Ford Pinto recall (1978), the "McLibel" case (1997), and the Enron scandal (2001), we will explore questions such as: How do organizations balance concerns with social responsibility and profit? What psychological biases contribute to organizational corruption? How do you create an ethical organizational culture? Course materials will consist of a mix of primary research papers, popular media articles, cases, and multimedia content.#
&ILROB 5790 | Managerial Negotiations&
#This course aims to help students improve their skills in two fundamental ways. One is knowledge-oriented: students learn frameworks and concepts for analyzing conflict. Students acquire terms and models for identifying the type of conflict that exists in a situation and the potential costs and benefits of different strategies and tactics. Based on this, students should be able to interpret situations, plan tactics, and recognize and react to their counterpart's behavior. A second and complementary route to improving as a negotiator is practice-oriented: students complement their analytical tools with behavioral skills. Negotiation and conflict ultimately come down to behaviors—how a manager opens a potentially volatile conversation, how a mediator uncovers information, how a negotiator frames an offer or a concession. Practicing these behaviors, and understanding how other parties perceive and react to them, is essential to improving as a negotiator. The course provides continuing opportunities for hands-on practice and also provides feedback, discussion, and occasions for reflection. Through role-play exercises, lecture, reading, and discussion, the course begins with basic dynamics in negotiation and adds complexity in stages, including multiple issues, multiple parties, mediation, agents, and coalitions. Some exercises involve numerical analyses, others revolve around qualitative conflicts. By the end of the course, students should be able to comfortably and confidently approach most any conflict or negotiation: analyzing its nature, understanding their own objectives, and plotting an approach that will give them the best shot at achieving their goals.#
&ILROB 6225 | The Impact of Culture and Diversity in Professional Sports Organizations&
#This course focuses on making the business case, or not, for diversity, equity and inclusion ("DEI"), within the major professional sports organizations, (i.e., the National Football League ("NFL"), National Basketball Association ("NBA"), Major League Baseball ("MLB"), National Hockey League ("NHL") and Major League Soccer ("MLS").#
&ILROB 6265 | Managing for Creativity&
#Creative ideas are widely touted as a source of competitive advantage available to workers and organizations. At the same time, creativity can be difficult to manage in a systematic way and organizations often fall short of their creative goals. This course is about how to manage creativity – both yours and in others. We will review theories of creativity, with a focus on (1) how to generate creative ideas and (2) on how to gain support for (i.e., sell) those ideas. We will discuss theoretical frameworks, case studies, and current examples with the goal of distinguishing between effective and ineffective strategies. You will develop skills related to making and selling ideas that you can implement in your organization, use to further your career, or to build value in any endeavor that runs on good ideas. A note to set expectations: This is a course about how to generate creative ideas and build support for those ideas. This course will not teach you how to start a business or secure VC funding.#
&ILROB 7235 | Data Analysis in Practice&
#The goal of this course is to expose students to common data analysis methods used in social science research. Topics covered will include t-tests, one-way ANOVA, factorial ANOVA, regression, mediation, repeated-measures ANOVA, mixed models analysis, non-parametric tests, reliability theory, factor analysis, power, and meta-analysis. Students will learn how to conduct these analyses on statistical computing packages, how to choose the right analysis to answer a practical research question, and how to report the results of the analyses. This course is designed for doctoral students.#
&ILROB 9200 | Organizational Behavior Workshop&
#This workshop is designed to extend the forum of current research presentations undertaken by faculty members and graduate students in the Department of Organizational Behavior and by invited guests in the M&O/ILROB Seminar Series. In particular, students will hone their academic citizen skills by practicing journal referee report construction using the talks/papers presented in the Seminar Series. In addition to attending the weekly seminar, students are expected to attend the additional 75 min workshop the same day, along with submitting a draft referee report of the material presented in the seminar. The workshop is designed to improve the construction of referee report writing, making it easier to produce high quality and constructive referee reports throughout the course of your career.#


$ILRST | Social Statistics$
&ILRST 2100 | Introductory Statistics and Data Science&
#Statistics is about understanding the world through data. We are surrounded by data, so there is a lot to understand. Covers data exploration and display, data gathering methods, probability, and statistical inference methods through contingency tables and linear regression. The emphasis is on thinking scientifically, understanding what is commonly done with data (and doing some of it for yourself), and laying a foundation for further study. Students learn to use statistical software and simulation tools to discover fundamental results. They use computers regularly; the test includes both multimedia materials and a software package. This course does not focus on data from any particular discipline, but will use real-world examples from a wide variety of disciplines and current events.#
&ILRST 2110 | Statistical Methods for the Social Sciences II&
#A second course in statistics that emphasizes applications to the social sciences. Topics include simple linear regression, multiple linear regression (theory, model building, and model diagnostics), and the analysis of variance. Computer packages are used extensively.#
&ILRST 3080 | Probability Models and Inference&
#This course provides an introduction to probability and parametric inference. Topics include: random variables, standard distributions, the law of large numbers, the central limit theorem, likelihood-based estimation, the method of moments, sampling distributions and confidence intervals.#
&ILRST 3110 | Probability Models and Inference for the Social Sciences&
#This course provides an introduction to probability and parametric inference. Topics include: random variables, standard distributions, the law of large numbers, the central limit theorem, likelihood-based estimation, sampling distributions and hypothesis testing.#
&ILRST 4100 | Multivariate Analysis&
#This course is on the basics of multivariate statistical analysis. The focus ison the applied side, and the students will learn by examples of multiple real-life datasets. Studentswill learn to visualize the datasets and conduct simple statistical analysis using linear/nonlinearmethods. We will also cover web-scraping and data cleaning.#
&ILRST 4550 | Applied Time Series Analysis&
#Introduces statistical tools for the analysis of time-dependent data. Data analysis and application will be an integral part of this course. Topics include linear, nonlinear, seasonal, multivariate modeling, and financial time series.#
&ILRST 5110 | Statistical Methods for the Social Sciences II&
#Second course in statistics that emphasizes applications to the social sciences. Topics include simple linear regression, multiple linear regression (theory, model building, and model diagnostics), and the analysis of variance. Computer packages are used extensively.#


$IM | Independent Major$
&IM 4990 | Honors Research I&
#Each participant must submit brief proposal approved by Honors Committee.#
&IM 4991 | Honors Research II&
#IM 4991 is the second part of the year-long honors thesis course in the Independent Major Program.#


$INDO | Indonesian$
&INDO 1100 | Elements of Indonesian Language and Culture&
#This course is for students with no previous knowledge of Indonesian or Malay language. Students will learn enough phrases to be able to handle very simple interactions, express very simple needs, and behave appropriately in Indonesian settings. Cultural information will be taught in English. Indonesianists of Cornell share fun information about their fields of expertise regarding Indonesia.  80% of the course, the Bahasa Indonesia language component, will be practiced.#
&INDO 1122 | Elementary Indonesian II&
#Gives a thorough grounding in basic speaking, listening, reading and writing skills.#
&INDO 2202 | Intermediate Indonesian II&
#Develops all four skills: reading, writing, speaking, and listening comprehension.#
&INDO 3302 | Advanced Indonesian II&
#Practical language course at a high intermediate and low advanced level in which students read and discuss selected materials on issues of their academic interests, write essays, and make oral presentations.#
&INDO 4402 | Advanced Indonesian for Research II&
#A critical academic language course at a higher advanced level that sharpens students' proficiency of integrated language skills from an advanced high or above level, based on the ACTFL proficiency benchmarks. Students read, discuss, debate and explore hypotheses on issues from specialized disciplines to broader abstract ideas.#


$INFO | Information Science$
&INFO 1260 | Choices and Consequences in Computing&
#Computing requires difficult choices that can have serious implications for real people. This course covers a range of ethical, societal, and policy implications of computing and information. It draws on recent developments in digital technology and their impact on society, situating these in the context of fundamental principles from computing, policy, ethics, and the social sciences. A particular emphasis will be placed on large areas in which advances in computing have consistently raised societal challenges: privacy of individual data; fairness in algorithmic decision-making; dissemination of online content; and accountability in the design of computing systems. As this is an area in which the pace of technological development raises new challenges on a regular basis, the broader goal of the course is to enable students to develop their own analyses of new situations as they emerge at the interface of computing and societal interests.#
&INFO 1300 | Introductory Design and Programming for the Web&
#This course is designed to introduce students to the conceptual, design, and technical aspects of developing websites. No prior knowledge of programming, or web or graphic design is assumed or necessary. In the course, we will cover basic web technologies such as HyperText Markup Language (HTML), Cascading StyleSheets (CSS), and some JavaScript (JS).#
&INFO 1998 | First-year Team Projects&
#Independent work in information science as part of a student-led team project. Intended for first-year students on project teams, project team members in training, and for project team members performing tasks that are not core to information science.#
&INFO 2310 | Interactive Web Application Design and Development&
#This course introduces students to the conceptual, design, and technical aspects of making interactive web applications. Students participate in a) JavaScript programming lectures outlining both client and server-side components of successful web applications which use HTTP communication, b) exercises which illustrate the benefits and tradeoffs of application design patterns such as handling application data client-side or server-side, and c) in- and out-of-class activities implementing user-facing web applications. Throughout the semester, students will create usable and accessible systems by employing the interaction design principles they learn. This course assumes no prior programming experience.#
&INFO 2770 | Excursions in Computational Sustainability&
#Balancing environmental, economic, and societal needs for a sustainable future encompasses problems of unprecedented size and complexity. Computing and information science can play an important role in addressing critical sustainability challenges faced by present and future generations. The goal of the course is to introduce students to a range of sustainability challenges and to computational methods that can help address such challenges. Sustainability topics include sustainable development, biodiversity and wildlife conservation, poverty mitigation, food security, renewable resources, energy, transportation, and climate change. In the context of these sustainability topics, the course will introduce students to mathematical and computational modeling techniques, algorithms, and statistical methods. The course is at the introductory undergraduate level. Students are expected to have basic knowledge of probability theory and calculus.#
&INFO 2951 | Introduction to Data Science with R&
#No description available.#
&INFO 3140 | Computational Psychology&
#This course states and motivates the observation that cognition is fundamentally a computational process and explores the implications of this idea. Students are introduced to a variety of conceptual tools for thinking about cognitive information processing, including statistical learning from experience and the use of patterns distilled from past experience in guiding future actions. They learn to apply these tools to gain understanding of perception, memory, motor control, language, action planning, problem solving, decision making, reasoning, intelligence, and creativity.#
&INFO 3152 | Introduction to Computer Game Design&
#A project-based course in which programmers and designers collaborate to make a computer game. This course investigates the theory and practice of developing computer games from a blend of technical, aesthetic, and cultural perspectives. Technical aspects of game architecture include software engineering, artificial intelligence, game physics, computer graphics, and networking. Aesthetic and cultural aspects include art and modeling, sound and music, game balance, and player experience.#
&INFO 3200 | Technology, Behavior and Society&
#This course addresses the contemporary socio- technological challenges and debates about digital media and information technologies and their impact on society. It covers a broad spectrum of topics spanning digital technologies, social behaviors, and society. We will critically evaluate research evidence and its relevance to various social contexts and practices, diverse users and uses of social media, ethical and policy implications, trade-offs of potential solutions, and the impact of socio-technological shifts on individuals and communities. Our overarching goal is to challenge commonplace assumptions about these tools and phenomena; and to ask deeper questions about their profound impact on society.#
&INFO 3312 | Data Communication&
#Data scientists often present information to disseminate their findings. This course introduces theories and applications of communicating with data, with an emphasis on visualizations. To support this approach, we will focus on the what, why, and how of data visualization. "What" focuses on specific types of visualizations for a particular purpose, as well as tools for constructing these plots. In "how" we will focus on the process of generating a data visualization from pre-processing the raw data, mapping attributes of the data to plot aesthetics, strategically determining how to define the visual encoding of the data for maximal accessibility, and finalizing the visualization to consider the importance of visual appeal. In "why" we discuss the theory tying together the "how" and the "what", and consider empirical evidence of best-practices in data communication.#
&INFO 3950 | Data Analytics for Information Science&
#This course will cover intermediate-level applications of data science, with focus on discovery, interpretation, and communication of meaningful patterns in data. Topics will include regression, classification, clustering, and forecasting, with an overview of machine learning algorithms and statistical inference.#
&INFO 4100 | Learning Analytics&
#Technology has transformed how people teach and learn today. It also offers unprecedented insight into the mechanics of learning by collecting detailed interaction and performance data, such as in online courses and learning management systems like Canvas. At the intersection of education and data science, learning analytics are used to make sense of these data and use them to improve teaching and learning. This course blends learning theories and methodologies covering a wide range of topics with weekly hands-on activities and group projects using real-world educational datasets. You will learn how learning works, major theories in the learning sciences, and data science methods. Students collect and analyze their own learning trace data as part of the course. Learning outcomes: Students will learn to articulate key ideas in the learning sciences; articulate the potential benefits and dangers of learning analytics for students, teachers, and institutions; choose and apply appropriate methods for analyzing different kinds of educational data and be able to articulate why; and interpret the results of basic learning analytics.#
&INFO 4120 | Ubiquitous Computing&
#This course will introduce students to the field of Ubiquitous Computing - a multidisciplinary research area that draws from Machine Learning, Machine Perception, Signal Processing, Human Computer Interaction, as well as psychology and sociology. Class discussions and hands on exercises will be the focus of this class with a few formal lectures. Discussions will highlight the various challenges in data collection, representation and tractability of models, and evaluation. We will brainstorm ideas on how future research can go about tackling some of these challenges. Students will be required to lead and critique papers. Everyone will take turns presenting papers and leading discussions. Participation in discussions will be evaluated as well as mini projects assignments during the term and an end of term final project.#
&INFO 4152 | Advanced Topics in Computer Game Design&
#Project-based follow-up course to INFO 3152. Students work in a multidisciplinary team to develop a game that incorporates innovative game mechanics. Advanced topics include nontraditional input schemes, advanced storytelling, social gameplay, and "serious" games. There is a special emphasis on developing games that can be submitted to festivals and competitions, or that can be commercialized.#
&INFO 4220 | Networks II: Market Design&
#Networks II builds on its prerequisite course and continues to examine how each of the computing, economic, sociological and natural worlds are connected and how the structure of these connections affects these worlds. In this course, we will construct mathematical models for and analyze networked settings, allowing us to both make predictions about behavior in such systems, as well as reason about how to design such systems to exhibit some desirable behavior. Throughout, we will draw on real-world examples such as social networks, peer-to-peer filesharing, Internet markets, and crowdsourcing, that illustrate these phenomena.#
&INFO 4250 | Surveillance and Privacy&
#This course explores the social, legal, and ethical facets of surveillance in modern life. New information technologies facilitate data collection at unprecedented scales and reaching across multiple domains. We explore the history and theory of data collection for purposes of social and political control, and how privacy is conceptualized and deployed in response to surveillant systems. We discuss how surveillance and privacy are situated in law and culture; the emergence of surveillance in law enforcement, workplaces, institutions, families, and self-tracking contexts; and the relationships among surveillance, power, and marginalization of vulnerable groups. We consider avenues through which surveillance is resisted, including technological and policy-based design strategies to mitigate the effects of data collection.#
&INFO 4260 | Computing On Earth: Planetary Dimensions and Consequence of Computing&
#This experimental, collaborative and seminar-based class will explore the material ethics of computing – the ways in which computing rests upon, emerges from, and ultimately returns to the earth, with deep and sometimes negative implications for sustainability, equity and justice in a rapidly changing world. Drawing on journalistic sources and academic fields ranging from anthropology, philosophy, public policy and environmental ethics to law, science and technology studies and human-computer interaction, the course will examine problems of computing-related sourcing and extraction, energy and consumption, and waste and repair, and how these are distributed and experienced in vastly different ways by different social groups and actors. Cases and examples will be drawn from near-to-hand and around the world.#
&INFO 4300 | Language and Information&
#How to make sense of the vast amounts of information available online, and how to relate it and to the social context in which it appears? This course introduces basic tools for retrieving and analyzing unstructured textual information from the web and social media. Applications include information retrieval (with human feedback), sentiment analysis, and social analysis of text. The coursework will include programming projects that play on the interaction between knowledge and social factors.#
&INFO 4310 | Interactive Information Visualization&
#This course explores a variety of techniques for making appealing and convincing representations of digital data. Students will build a toolbox of techniques for representing information, explore ways for making visualizations interactive, investigate how cognition makes data easy or hard to understand, and use their web development and data-scraping abilities to construct new visualizations. Projects centered around current issues will allow students to make use of their new knowledge both individually and in groups, and in-class critique sessions will refine their understanding of what makes for successful and unsuccessful designs.#
&INFO 4320 | Introduction to Rapid Prototyping and Physical Computing&
#This class provides an introduction to modern rapid prototyping techniques such as laser cutting, 3D printing and microcontroller programming (such as the Arduino system). Using these tools, small multidisciplinary groups conduct the hardware project of their choice exploring topics as varied as: Universal Access, tangible interfaces, toys, personal or medical assistants and new musical instruments.#
&INFO 4340 | App Design and Prototyping&
#In this interactive studio-based course, students will work in teams to complete a significant project. Students will gain practical experience and confidence applying the user-centered design process to design, code, and evaluate a high-fidelity prototype app. Through the project, students will learn how design effective graphical user interfaces using affordances, user feedback, and common interface controls.#
&INFO 4360 | Communication Networks and Social Capital&
#Course covers the relationship between communication networks and social capital and explores the tension between individual and group capital.#
&INFO 4400 | Qualitative User Research and Design Methods&
#This upper-level course provides an in-depth understanding of and experience with advanced concepts and techniques for researching, ideating, critiquing, designing, prototyping, and evaluating interactive technologies intended for people to use and incorporate in their lives. The course focuses on advanced user research and design methods.#
&INFO 4410 | Re-Designing Robots&
#This course provides an introduction to human robot interaction. Students will be working alone and in teams to design and examine novel ways for robots to interact with people. In parallel to the design projects students will be introduced to current research on human-robot interaction. Topics include: video interaction analysis, prototyping, and evaluation. This course will require students to re-design a physical robot using basic mechatronics skills with Arduino or similar platforms. Focus of the class will be on designing the interaction with the robot through experimentation with a physical system.#
&INFO 4450 | Computer-Mediated Communication&
#Focuses on reading and evaluating the theories and research methodologies used to investigate communication via computer systems. Assignments include student collaborations using electronic conferencing and other advanced communication technologies, as well as reflections on and evaluations of these collaborations in light of current theories and research findings. Topics include virtual teams, videoconferencing, and others as they emerge.#
&INFO 4900 | Independent Reading and Research&
#Independent reading and research for undergraduates.#
&INFO 4910 | Teaching in Information Science&
#Involves working as a teaching assistant in a course in the information science or information science, systems, and technology major.#
&INFO 4940 | Special Topics in Information Science&
#Study of topics not currently covered in INFO offerings, as determined by faculty and student interest.#
&INFO 4997 | Practical Training in Information Science&
#This independent study course offers IS majors (i.e., undergraduates whose applications to affiliate with the IS major have been approved) an opportunity to reflect on concepts from information science as they were encountered and applied in a recent internship. Students write a short paper describing their work experience and how it connects to the educational objectives of the information science major.#
&INFO 4998 | Team Projects&
#Advanced independent work in information science as part of a student-led team project. Students must make individual arrangements with a faculty sponsor. Students are expected to spend 3-4 hours per week per credit hour working on the project.#
&INFO 5000 | Practical Training in Information Science for International Students&
#This independent study course offers IS MPS Grad Students strictly for CPT purposes only.#
&INFO 5101 | Learning Analytics&
#Technology has transformed how people teach and learn today. It also offers unprecedented insight into the mechanics of learning by collecting detailed interaction and performance data, such as in online courses and learning management systems like Canvas. At the intersection of education and data science, learning analytics are used to make sense of these data and use them to improve teaching and learning. This course blends learning theories and methodologies covering a wide range of topics with weekly hands-on activities and group projects using real-world educational datasets. You will learn how learning works, major theories in the learning sciences, and data science methods. Students collect and analyze their own learning trace data as part of the course. Learning outcomes: Students will learn to articulate key ideas in the learning sciences; articulate the potential benefits and dangers of learning analytics for students, teachers, and institutions; choose and apply appropriate methods for analyzing different kinds of educational data and be able to articulate why; and interpret the results of basic learning analytics.#
&INFO 5152 | Advanced Topics in Computer Game Design&
#Students work in a multidisciplinary team to develop a game that incorporates innovative game mechanics. Advanced topics include nontraditional input schemes, advanced storytelling, social gameplay, and "serious" games.  There is a special emphasis on developing games that can be submitted to festivals and competitions, or that can be commercialized. Students may take this course as either a programmer or a designer; the prerequisites differ depending upon the selected track. Contact the instructor for more information.#
&INFO 5213 | Discrete Optimization for Urban Planning and Mobility&
#The course is organized around five major case studies on the use of discrete optimization and data (AI at large) for smart cities. Namely, 1) bike sharing, 2) bus transportation planning, 3) fairness in ambulance allocation (and police patrol), 4) downed tree reporting (NYC Department of Parks and Recreation), and 5) parcel delivery.#
&INFO 5260 | Computing On Earth: Planetary Dimensions and Consequence of Computing&
#This experimental, collaborative and seminar-based class will explore the material ethics of computing – the ways in which computing rests upon, emerges from, and ultimately returns to the earth, with deep and sometimes negative implications for sustainability, equity and justice in a rapidly changing world. Drawing on journalistic sources and academic fields ranging from anthropology, philosophy, public policy and environmental ethics to law, science and technology studies and human-computer interaction, the course will examine problems of computing-related sourcing and extraction, energy and consumption, and waste and repair, and how these are distributed and experienced in vastly different ways by different social groups and actors. Cases and examples will be drawn from near-to-hand and around the world.#
&INFO 5305 | User Experience and User Research&
#This course takes a deep dive into the user experience (UX) lifecycle--from conceiving an idea for a product to evaluating a prototype--and user research methods. We will cover techniques for understanding your target users (e.g., observations and interviews) and designing and evaluating your prototypes (e.g., lab studies and walkthroughs). If you have taken a human computer interaction class before, many of these techniques will be familiar. Our goal in this course is to go deeper, help you gain more practice and expertise so that you will be ready to apply what you learn when you graduate. The course lectures will cover the theory, history, and practical aspects of UX and user research methods. Student deliverables include many short in-class exercises and weekly homework assignments.#
&INFO 5311 | Interactive Information Visualization&
#This course explores a variety of techniques for making appealing and convincing representations of digital data. Students will build a toolbox of techniques for representing information, explore ways for making visualizations interactive, investigate how cognition makes data easy or hard to understand, and use their web development and data-scraping abilities to construct new visualizations. Projects centered around current issues will allow students to make use of their new knowledge both individually and in groups, and in-class critique sessions will refine their understanding of what makes for successful and unsuccessful designs.#
&INFO 5312 | Data Communication&
#Data scientists often present information to disseminate their findings. This course introduces theories and applications of communicating with data, with an emphasis on visualizations. To support this approach, we will focus on the what, why, and how of data visualization. "What" focuses on specific types of visualizations for a particular purpose, as well as tools for constructing these plots. In "how" we will focus on the process of generating a data visualization from pre-processing the raw data, mapping attributes of the data to plot aesthetics, strategically determining how to define the visual encoding of the data for maximal accessibility, and finalizing the visualization to consider the importance of visual appeal. In "why" we discuss the theory tying together the "how" and the "what", and consider empirical evidence of best-practices in data communication.#
&INFO 5321 | Introduction to Rapid Prototyping and Physical Computing&
#This class provides an introduction to modern rapid prototyping techniques such as laser cutting, 3D printing and microcontroller programming (such as the Arduino system). Using these tools, small multidisciplinary groups conduct the hardware project of their choice exploring topics as varied as: Universal Access, tangible interfaces, toys, personal or medical assistants and new musical instruments.#
&INFO 5330 | Technology, Media, and Democracy&
#This course evaluates the role of the information ecosystem in contributing to the health of our society with the goal of developing ideas and tools that can help citizens be equipped with the knowledge and information required to address the challenges that we face. Specifically, the course examines the socio-technical aspects of our information ecosystem and how they may hinder, or challenge, the functions of society in particular in representative democracies such as the United States. Key topics include (a) how the design of platforms, algorithms, monetary models, and online communities impacts our information ecosystem; (b) the challenges for credible and trustworthy information ecosystem and how can they be addressed; (c) the breadth of abuse and adversary online from mis- and disinformation to online harassment, including the types of abuse, the adversarial actors online, what are they goals, methods, and how they can be countered.#
&INFO 5342 | Designing Ubiquitous and Interactive Computing Devices&
#This course will introduce students to the fields of ubiquitous computing and interactive device design, drawing from such diverse fields as electronic circuit design, signal processing, machine learning, and human-computer interaction. Taking a hands-on, lab-based approach, students will prototype their own interactive devices and use them to collect data and interact with users. Students will learn about fabrication techniques and printed circuit board design, and apply them to create their own devices. For the final project, students will build a functional embedded or wearable device that can be applied to problems in health technology, urban design or other real-world applications. Topic areas include electronics, sensors, actuators, interface design, physical prototyping, and user testing.#
&INFO 5358 | 3D Interaction Design&
#Designing products and experiences for head-mounted displays, often with novel inputs such as hands and eyes, introduces new challenges for designers when compared to traditional devices and user interfaces. This course presents the theoretical and practical foundations of the field of 3D User Interfaces (3DUIs) and 3D interaction design for virtual and augmented reality applications. The course will highlight the differences between 2D and 3D interaction design, introduce design principles, best practices for prototyping, and case studies. Students will be tasked with designing, implementing, and evaluating interaction prototypes of different fidelity for 3DUI tasks such as selection and manipulation, travel, and system control.#
&INFO 5368 | Practical Applications in Machine Learning (PAML)&
#This course provides hands-on experience developing and deploying foundational machine learning algorithms on real-world datasets for practical applications (e.g., healthcare, computer vision). Students will learn about the machine learning pipeline end-to-end including dataset creation, pre- and post-processing, annotation, annotation validation, preparation for machine learning, training and testing a model, and evaluation. Students will focus on real-world challenges at each stage of the ML pipeline while handling bias in models and datasets. Lastly, students will analyze the strengths and weaknesses of regression, classification, clustering, and deep learning algorithms.#
&INFO 5375 | Machine Learning for Health&
#This course introduces students the various real-world health related problems such as patient screening, risk modeling, disease subtyping and precision medicine, along with their associated data, such as patient clinical records, medical images, physiological and vital signals from wearable sensors, multi-omics, etc. and how to use appropriate machine learning algorithms to analyze these data and help with the corresponding real-world health problems. The machine learning techniques involved in this class include classic supervised and unsupervised learning, network analysis, probabilistic modeling, deep learning, transfer learning, federated learning, algorithmic fairness and interpretability. We will also invite clinicians or researchers working in the health industry to deliver guest lecturers in the class. The students will gain hands-on experience on analyzing real world health data during course assignments and projects.#
&INFO 5400 | Qualitative User Research and Design Methods&
#This upper-level course provides an in-depth understanding of and experience with advanced concepts and techniques for researching, ideating, critiquing, designing, prototyping, and evaluating interactive technologies intended for people to use and incorporate in their lives. The course focuses on advanced user research and design methods.#
&INFO 5420 | Urban Design Strategies and Case Studies&
#The course will ground students in the basics of urban and spatial design practices as well as the surrounding environmental, sociological, political, and economic dimensions. This course will use primary and secondary source material and theoretical and empirical works to understand cities as complex interrelated environments.  Students will learn about the multidimensional drivers that shape the urban systems and built environment that form our cities.  The course will teach students how to analyze and transform urban environments to create livable and sustainable cities for future generations. The course will also contribute a design perspective for the program: project based, empirical, iterative, situated, and integrative. The course uses New York City as a real-world laboratory and augments foundational and theoretical examples with case studies of successful and unsuccessful initiatives. Students will develop projects that address urgent urban challenges such as sustainability, infrastructure, resiliency, mobility, affordability, access, and equity and will propose forward-thinking and technologically driven design approaches to urban challenges.#
&INFO 5440 | App Design and Prototyping&
#In this interactive studio-based course, students will work in teams to complete a significant project. Students will gain practical experience and confidence applying the user-centered design process to design, code, and evaluate a high-fidelity prototype app. Through the project, students will learn how design effective graphical user interfaces using affordances, user feedback, and common interface controls.#
&INFO 5450 | Computer-Mediated Communication&
#For description and learning outcomes, see INFO 4450.#
&INFO 5455 | Smart Cities: Requirements, Ambitions, and Limitations&
#The smart cities movement was born during the Global Financial Crisis of 2007-8. When multinationals slashed spending on IT, governments ramped up stimulus spending. Big vendors like IBM, Cisco, and Siemens seized the opportunity to port enterprise tech to the municipal sector. This project didn't get far. While there have been successes, city governments were slow to define and procure smart cities solutions. And the context changed. Consumer tech innovation raced ahead, drawing a new group of giant firms into the fray. They brought new technologies, but also more money, new business models, and more aggressive approaches to government affairs and deregulation. This shift from smart cities to urban tech is ongoing and defines the landscape for engineering cyberphysical urban systems today. This course is a survey of smart cities and urban tech for engineers, organized around 12-15 broad technical capabilities that reflect widely-shared views of what this movement seeks to achieve.#
&INFO 5900 | MPS Project&
#Independent research for Master of Professional Studies students.#
&INFO 5905 | Professional Career Development&
#This course will focus on career development topics specifically for MPS Information Science students. Through a series of discussions, activities, and guest speaker lectures, students will further develop career success strategies with an emphasis on personal strengths, networking, communication, and professional branding. By the end of the course, students will be able to identify and articulate to prospective employers, their unique interface between computing and the world.#
&INFO 5915 | Remaking the City&
#This workshop-based service learning course will engage students in participatory design projects that use technology to support community-based organizations in urban contexts. The engagement will be structured as team-based internships, where students will be required to commit up to 5 hours per week to support the organization in its technology needs. We will reflect on these experiences, and connect them to broader themes impacting cities and the civic organizations within them – including migration, race, gender and disability. Students will learn and apply user-centered and participatory design methodologies; theoretical frameworks that help us understand the modern city; the unique technology challenges facing small community-based and civic organizations.#
&INFO 5920 | Specialization Project for Connective Media, Health Tech, and Urban Tech&
#All students of the Jacobs Institute are required to complete a two-semester Specialization research project. We offer two Tracks for completing this requirement. * Track 1 Specialization projects are conducted in small teams on topics suggested and supervised by researchers at Cornell Tech or Weill Cornell. Track 1 students register for 4 credits of INFO 5920 in their first year Spring semester, as well as 4 credits of INFO 5920 in their second year Fall semester. * Track 2 Specialization project topics can be defined by the student; so long as they are 'anchored' with a 3-credit approved-elective course, and reviewed for program relevance by the INFO 5920 instructor. Track 2 students register for 3 credits of their anchor elective course and 1 credit of INFO 5920 during their first year Spring semester. Track 2 students register for 4 credits INFO 5920 in their second year Fall semester. In general, Specialization projects result in tangible, concentration-relevant deliverables in the form of prototypes, analyses, research studies, and/or publications, which become a sharable part of the student portfolio.#
&INFO 5940 | Special Topics in Information Science&
#Study of topics not currently covered in INFO offerings, as determined by faculty and student interest.#
&INFO 6120 | Ubiquitous Computing&
#This course will introduce students to the field of Ubiquitous Computing - a multidisciplinary research area that draws from Machine Learning, Machine Perception, Signal Processing, Human Computer Interaction, as well as psychology and sociology. Class discussions and hands on exercises will be the focus of this class with a few formal lectures. Discussions will highlight the various challenges in data collection, representation and tractability of models, and evaluation. We will brain-storm ideas on how future research can go about tackling some of these challenges. Students will be required to lead and critique papers. Everyone will take turns presenting papers and in leading discussions. Participation in discussions will be evaluated as well as mini projects assignments during the term and an end of term final project.#
&INFO 6135 | Developing Research Agendas in HCI Engineering&
#The focus of this course is to create a research agenda in technical HCI. We will study how people go about creating an agenda instead of individual projects. To this end, we will look at the work of recent PhD graduates, understand their contributions to technical HCI and what methods they use to validate these contributions. Beyond that, we also look at how their projects form a larger agenda and what patterns they use to develop such an agenda. In the first half of the course, we practice this by looking at recent graduates who have a complete agenda, in the second half, we move on to explore what an agenda could look like for very recent papers, including those of students taking the class.#
&INFO 6220 | Networks II: Market Design&
#Networks II builds on its prerequisite course and continues to examine how each of the computing, economic, sociological and natural worlds are connected and how the structure of these connections affects these worlds. In this course, we will construct mathematical models for and analyze networked settings, allowing us to both make predictions about behavior in such systems, as well as reason about how to design such systems to exhibit some desirable behavior. Throughout, we will draw on real-world examples such as social networks, peer-to-peer filesharing, Internet markets, and crowdsourcing, that illustrate these phenomena.#
&INFO 6400 | Qualitative User Research and Design Methods&
#This upper-level course provides an in-depth understanding of and experience with advanced concepts and techniques for researching, ideating, critiquing, designing, prototyping, and evaluating interactive technologies intended for people to use and incorporate in their lives. The course focuses on advanced user research and design methods.#
&INFO 6450 | Computer-Mediated Communication&
#Focuses on reading and evaluating the theories and research methodologies used to investigate communication via computer systems. Assignments include student collaborations using electronic conferencing and other advanced communication technologies, as well as reflections on and evaluations of these collaborations in light of current theories and research findings. Topics include virtual teams, videoconferencing, and others as they emerge.#
&INFO 6561 | Technologies of Valuation&
#No description available.#
&INFO 6940 | Special Topics in Information Science&
#Study of topics not currently covered in INFO offerings, as determined by faculty and student interest.#
&INFO 7090 | IS Colloquium&
#For staff, visitors, and graduate students interested in information science.#
&INFO 7900 | Independent Research&
#Independent research for MPS students and pre-A exam Ph.D. Students.#
&INFO 7905 | IS PhD Professionalization Seminar&
#This seminar is designed to help orient incoming Information Science PhD students to intellectual, professional, and practical aspects of getting a PhD in information science at Cornell. This includes helping students become more familiar with people, projects, and useful resources in information science and related disciplines at Cornell; developing a sense of the broader information science field and related academic communities; and to support cohort-building among incoming students.#
&INFO 9900 | Thesis Research&
#Thesis research for post-A exam Ph.D. Students.#


$ITAL | Italian$
&ITAL 1110 | Elementary Italian In Rome I&
#This introductory course provides a thorough grounding in all the language skills: listening, speaking, reading, and writing, with practice in small groups.#
&ITAL 1202 | Italian II&
#This is a fast-paced, introductory course designed for students with some basic knowledge of the language. This introductory course provides a thorough grounding in all language skills: listening, speaking, reading, and writing, with practice in small and large groups. Interactive lectures cover grammar and cultural information.#
&ITAL 1213 | Italian for Art, Architecture and Fashion Design&
#The learning objectives of this course are, first, to introduce students to some of the crucial moments in the history of Italian figurative arts, architecture and fashion design, but also to a range of social issues relevant for understanding the more recent tendencies in art and design in modern Italy; second, to help students refine the way they speak and write about art, architecture and design through a review of the grammatical and lexical structures of Italian and a reinforcement of idiomatic expressions that will increase their ability to discuss, evaluate, analyze and compare issues of relevance to the field of art, architecture and desgn.#
&ITAL 1401 | Intensive Elementary Italian&
#An intensive elementary Italian language course. This 6-credit course covers material presented in ITAL 1201 and ITAL 1202 in just one semester. It's offered to students who cannot study Italian in the Fall, but can only do it in the Spring semester.#
&ITAL 2202 | Italian IV&
#An intermediate-level course that aims to further develop intercultural, reading, listening, speaking, and writing abilities in ITAL 2201. Students will be guided in perfecting their communication skills, improving their cultural proficiency, and developing a critical eye toward printed and visual material drawn from literature, history, politics, science, and arts in the Italophone world. Conversation skills will be practiced in daily discussions and in individual or group projects and presentations. A variety of written assignments will help students increase the range, accuracy, and stylistic appropriateness of their writing. Review of select grammar topics is part of this course, as is reading a short contemporary novel.#
&ITAL 2204 | The Cinematic Eye of Italy&
#In this film and culture course dedicated to Italian cinema, we will be looking at and reflecting on some of the most important films that made history both in Italy and the world from the end of the World War II to today.#
&ITAL 3580 | Creating Renaissance Man (and Woman)&
#This course is dedicated to studying important works of literature that address what it means, in the Renaissance, to strive for excellence as a man or as a woman, especially in the public sphere and in love.#
&ITAL 4200 | Special Topics in Italian Literature&
#Guided independent study of special topics.#
&ITAL 4300 | Honors in Italian Literature&
#Consult director of undergraduate studies for more information.#
&ITAL 6400 | Special Topics in Italian Literature&
#Guided independent study for graduate students.#


$JAPAN | Japanese$
&JAPAN 1102 | Elementary Japanese II&
#Gives a thorough grounding in all four language skills-speaking, listening, reading, and writing-at the beginning level. The laboratory provides explanation, analysis, and cultural background. Daily lectures are conducted entirely in Japanese.#
&JAPAN 2202 | Intermediate Japanese II&
#This course provides widely applicable language proficiency as an integrated Japanese course, which develops all four language skills (speaking, listening, reading, and writing) at the post-elementary level.#
&JAPAN 3302 | High Intermediate Japanese II&
#For students who have learned basic Japanese skills and would like to develop higher skills in reading, writing, speaking, and listening.#
&JAPAN 4402 | Advanced Japanese II&
#Develops reading, writing and oral communication skills at the advanced level.#
&JAPAN 4422 | Special Topics&
#This is a Japanese course to develop both oral and written communication skills focusing on a variety of current events and social phenomena in Japan.#


$JPLIT | Japanese Literature$
&JPLIT 6625 | Directed Readings&
#Students choose a faculty member to oversee this independent study. The student and the faculty member work together to develop class readings.#
&JPLIT 6628 | Advanced Directed Readings&
#No description available.#


$JWST | Jewish Studies$
&JWST 1102 | Elementary Modern Hebrew II&
#Intended for beginners. Provides a thorough grounding in reading, writing, grammar, oral comprehension, and speaking. Students who complete the course are able to function in basic situations in a Hebrew-speaking environment.#
&JWST 2100 | Intermediate Modern Hebrew&
#The course is aimed at training students in exact and idiomatic Hebrew, expanding vocabulary and usage of grammatical knowledge, and acquiring facility of expression in both conversation and writing. Uses written and oral exercises built around the texts. Reading and discussion of selections from Hebrew literature and Israeli culture through the use of texts and audiovisual materials.#
&JWST 2156 | Anti-Judaism and Anti-Semitism in Historical Perspective&
#Why is it that the age of emancipation which saw most of the world's Jews gain citizenship status and achieve unprecedented levels of socio-economic modernization, also witnessed a catastrophic assault on Jewish life? How do we explain the conjunction between the spread of liberal values and the exponential rise of anti-semitism? Most historians refer to the virulence of racism in accounting for the scale and brutality of anti-Jewish rhetoric which prepared the way for the destruction of European Jewry in the twentieth century. But this explanation fails to account for the fact that progressive democratic discourse which explicitly endorses ethnic diversity and emphatically repudiates racial prejudice remains susceptible to anti-Jewish animus even now. In this class, we will examine the complex relationship between emancipation and anti-semitism from the perspective of those who benefited from the former but had to contend with the reality of the latter – Europe's rising class of Jewish intellectuals. We will discover that their insights into the problem of modern Jew-hatred were both acute and prescient and have much to teach us about the current Jewish predicament.#
&JWST 2644 | Introduction to Judaism&
#This course is an introduction to Jewish identities, values, and practices from the ancient to modern era. Organized thematically, it examines Judaism as a religious phenomenon, with a particular emphasis on its cultural and textual diversity across three millennia. Themes covered include creation, Sabbath, prayer, Jerusalem, pious customs, magic, reincarnation, revelation, among others. Throughout the semester students perform close readings of a wide selection of Jewish texts from the Bible, Talmud, kabbalah (mysticism), philosophy, liturgy, and modern Jewish thought. In what ways are these various traditions of Judaism interrelated and/or in tension with one another? In the face of the Jewish history's tremendous diversity, what is it that has unified Judaism and the Jewish people over the centuries? By exploring these types of questions, this course examines the appropriateness of defining Judaism as a religion, an ethnicity, a civilization, and/or a culture. Readings include introductory-level textbooks and essays, as well as a range of primary source materials in translation.#
&JWST 2790 | Jewish Films and Filmmakers: Hollywood and Beyond&
#What does it mean to call a film is "Jewish"? Does it have to represent Jewish life? Does it have to feature characters identifiable as Jews? If artists who identify as Jews—actors, directors, screenwriters, composers—play significant roles in a film's production does that make it Jewish? Our primary point of entry into these questions will be Hollywood, from the industry's early silent films, through the period generally considered classical, down to the present day. We will also study films produced overseas, in countries that may include Israel, Egypt, France, Italy, and Germany. Our discussions will be enriched by contextual material drawn from film studies, cultural studies, Jewish studies, American studies, and other related fields. Students will be expected to view a significant number of films outside of class—an average of one per week—and engage with them through writing and in-class discussion. The directors, screenwriters, composers, and actors whose work we will study may include: Charlie Chaplin, Irving Berlin, Al Jolson, Fanny Brice, Billy Wilder, Barbra Streisand, Woody Allen, Mel Brooks, Aviva Kempner, Joan Micklin Silver, the Marx Brothers, and the Coen Brothers.#
&JWST 2958 | Empires and Vampires: History of Eastern Europe&
#In the course we will study the history of the lands, peoples, and states of Eastern Europe during the 19th and 20th centuries as an integral part of modern Europlean and global history. We will ask what the East European experience can teach us about larger questions of cause and effect, agency in history, continuties and ruptures, the interplay between institutions, states and individuals, and the relationship between culture and politics. The course will define the region broadly, to include the lands stretching from today's Ukraine to Poland and the Balkans. But given the constant flux in borders, demographics, and sovereignities of this region, we will have to continually reconsider what and where Eastern Europe was. We will survey key periods in the region's history, looking closely at cases from across Eastern Europe. We will learn about institutions, large-scale processes, personalities, events, cultural artifacts, and ideas using a combination of narrative history and literary essays, primary documents, works of fiction, and films.#
&JWST 3102 | Advanced Modern Hebrew II&
#This is the second course in our third-year Modern Hebrew language sequence. Like its predecessor, it focuses on developing speech proficiency, reading and listening comprehension, and writing. It does this through reading of a variety of fiction and nonfiction texts; viewing of filmic works and television series selected for their social, political, and cultural relevance; class discussions; presentations and writing about everyday issues in Israel and abroad.#
&JWST 3523 | Antisemitism, Islamophobia, Racism&
#Islamophobia and Judeophobia are ideas and like all ideas they have a history of their own. Although today many might think of Islamophobia or Judeophobia as unchangeable—fear of and hatred for Islam and Muslims or Judaism and Jews—these ideas and the social and political practices informed by them have varied greatly over time and place. They even intersected during the Middle Age and in Ottoman times when "the Jew" was frequently represented as allied with "The Muslim". The first part of this course traces the history, trajectory, and political agency of Judeophobia and Islamophobia in texts and other forms of culture from late antiquity through the present. The second part of the course is devoted to modernity and the present especially in Europe and the United States focusing on representational practices—how Muslims/Islam and Jews/Judaism are portrayed in various discourses including the media, film and on the internet. We will investigate how these figures (the Muslim, the Jew) serve as a prism through which we can understand various social, political and cultural processes and the interests of those who produce and consume them.#
&JWST 3530 | A Mediterranean Society and Its Culture&
#This course examines the cultural and historical interaction of Muslims and Jews from the emergence of Islam in the seventh century through the classical age of Islam down to the turn of the thirteenth century. The intersection of the two cultures (scriptural, spiritual, intellectual, literary, communal, and interpersonal) and members of their respective religious communities will be studied through readings of primary texts (in translation). The course will conclude with some brief reflections on historical memory and the modern and contemporary significance of the two religious communities' interactions during the classical age of Islam.#
&JWST 3550 | Origins of Monotheism&
#The Purpose of this course is to trace the development of Monotheism from its origins in Israelite/Canaanite polytheism. We will examine worship of the God, Yahweh and other deities in ancient Israel, and will trace the long and complicated process by which Yahweh became the sole deity to be formally accepted within Judaism. Using biblical evidence as well as inscriptional and archaeological evidence from Israel and elsewhere in the ancient Near East, we will address the question of why the Israelites eventually rejected deities such as Baal, Asherah, El and others, and how imagery associated with these deities informs biblical descriptions of Yahweh. We will explore the ways in which a small group of Jerusalem elites helped shape the monotheistic tradition that has been inherited in the West, and will consider the political, social and theological implications of this transformation.#
&JWST 3588 | Archaeology and the Bible&
#The purpose of the course is to place the Bible within the context of a larger ancient world that can be explored by systematic excavation of physical remains. Students will become familiar with archaeological excavations and finds from ancient Syria-Palestine from 10,000 bce to 586 bce. We will explore this archaeological evidence on its own terms, taking into consideration factors such as archaeological method and the interpretive frameworks in which the excavators themselves work, as well as the implications of this body of evidence for understanding the complexity and diversity of biblical Israel.#
&JWST 3722 | From Respectability to Messianism? Aspects of Modern Jewish Nationalism&
#Students will practice critical, close reading and examination of historical primary sources that are essential for the study of modern Jewish nationalism and statehood. In our discussions, we will identify influential historical ideas within different genres of texts (personal, journalistic, commercials, political, literary, etc.) and critically combine social history and theory, literary understanding and theory, and intellectual history. Throughout the course, special attention will be given to ideas of class and status and their implications on the formation and change of Jewish and Israeli nationalism over the years. Students will consider key concepts of class theory and engage in comparatively examining their usefulness as tools for their historical understanding of the texts analyzed.#
&JWST 3825 | The Past and Future of Holocaust Survivor Testimonies&
#This course will explore Holocaust survivor testimonies, from the multilayered history of their recording across the globe and their increasing institutionalization after the 1980s to their current uses and future promises, including digital methods. How can we approach, use, and make sense of what amounts to 20 years of uninterrupted listening? This seminar will offer a hands-on, interdisciplinary approach to these largely untapped archives around the world, probing them through the lens of history, film and media studies, trauma studies, cultural studies, and memory studies. Throughout the semester, students will each pick one video testimony to work on individually. Collectively, the course will develop tools to make these video testimonies not only a lasting memorial, but a proper object of study at the global level. Taken together, we will offer a tentative answer to an urgent question: what is the future of Holocaust and atrocity testimony, now that the last generation of survivors is passing away?#
&JWST 4013 | Antisemitism in the Courts and in Jurisprudence&
#Antisemitism, a deep-seated prejudice against Jews, is seeing a global revival. The most brutal U.S. instance was the 2018 Tree of Life Synagogue massacre, where Robert G. Bowers, an active anti-Semitic online poster, took 11 lives. Tried in 2023, he was condemned to death for his crimes. As emphasized by Assistant U.S. Attorney Soo C. Song, Bowers was driven by his belief that Jews are "a cancer upon the planet." Bowers' trial was only the most recent in a series of trials and judicial proceedings, both in the U.S. and internationally, that had antisemitism at their core in a myriad of ways. This course examines various manifestations of antisemitism in law and jurisprudence, from 19th century Europe to early 20th century America to Nazi Germany and the Stalinist U.S.S.R. to the present. Among the topics covered are blood libel trials, the Dreyfus affair in France, the Leo Frank trial in Georgia, the defamation case against Henry Ford, the Nazi Nuremberg laws, the annihilation of European Jews as the core of the crimes against humanity charge at the International Military Tribunal at Nuremberg, and contemporary proceedings charging a hostile anti-Semitic environment at certain U.S. colleges and universities under Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964.#
&JWST 4520 | Jewish Cities&
#From Jerusalem to Rome, from Shanghai to Marrakesh, Jews and cities have been shaping each other for thousands of years. This course ranges through time and space to examine how Jewish and other "minority" experiences offer a window onto questions of modernity and post-colonialism in intersections of the built environment with migration, urban space, and memory. Readings and film/video encompass historical, ethnographic, visual, architectural and literary materials to offer a broad look at materials on ghettos, empires, cosmopolitanism, tolerance, immigrant enclaves, race and ethnicity.#
&JWST 4700 | The Jewish Dead&
#We will explore the thesis that far from being dead and therefore gone, the continued presence of the dead is absolutely foundational for the workings of Jewishness. What that "presence" could possibly mean, to us who do not usually think in terms of immortal spirit, will be a central puzzle for our discussions. We will also have scope for consideration of ways in which the continuing "weight" of the dead may inhibit needed change and rethinking. Readings will include selections from the Babylonian Talmud, work in early modern cultural history, and studies of the culture of death and dying in contemporary Jewish communities, including the life and culture of Jewish cemeteries, especially in the New York area.#
&JWST 4992 | Independent Study - Undergraduate&
#For undergraduates who wish to obtain research experience or do extensive reading on a special topic.  Students select a topic in consultation with the faculty member who has agreed to supervise the course.#
&JWST 6310 | Methods in Medieval&
#Topic: Writing Through the Forest in Search of Trees. Hello, Humanities Student! Are you a plotter or a pantser? Not sure? Come and join us to find out, and to gain valuable insight into what kind of a writer you are, and how to manage that writer most effectively and productively. This theme-centered methods seminar, through a communal focus on trees, woods, glens, and copses in the pre-modern world, will hone in on the most indispensable tool in the humanist's belt: writing. From the generation of ideas, to their organization into an outline (or a blueprint, or whatever euphemism we, as a group or as individuals, decide to apply to the initial, tangled pile of yarn) to the first draft. Followed by frank and constructive criticism of the initial draft as a group and in pairs, and then on to the part that all students—really, all humanists…okay, all writers—find to be the greatest struggle: "Your paper has some good ideas, but it really needs a rewrite." Now what do you do? As we write, and rewrite, we will also read widely. In addition to primary sources, scholarly articles and essays, we will include criticism, personal essay, theory, excerpts from fiction, and more, in an effort to open students' writing up to a myriad of possibilities for persuasive and compelling written communication.#
&JWST 6330 | A Mediterranean Society and Its Culture&
#This course examines the cultural and historical interaction of Muslims and Jews from the emergence of Islam in the seventh century through the classical age of Islam down to the turn of the thirteenth century. The intersection of the two cultures (scriptural, spiritual, intellectual, literary, communal, and interpersonal) and members of their respective religious communities will be studied through readings of primary texts (in translation). The course will conclude with some brief reflections on historical memory and the modern and contemporary significance of the two religious communities' interactions during the classical age of Islam.#
&JWST 7520 | Jewish Cities&
#From Jerusalem to Rome, from Shanghai to Marrakesh, Jews and cities have been shaping each other for thousands of years. This course ranges through time and space to examine how Jewish and other "minority" experiences offer a window onto questions of modernity and post-colonialism in intersections of the built environment with migration, urban space, and memory. Readings and film/video encompass historical, ethnographic, visual, architectural and literary materials to offer a broad look at materials on ghettos, empires, cosmopolitanism, tolerance, immigrant enclaves, race and ethnicity.#
&JWST 7600 | The Jewish Dead&
#We will explore the thesis that far from being dead and therefore gone, the continued presence of the dead is absolutely foundational for the workings of Jewishness. What that "presence" could possibly mean, to us who do not usually think in terms of immortal spirit, will be a central puzzle for our discussions. We will also have scope for consideration of ways in which the continuing "weight" of the dead may inhibit needed change and rethinking. Readings will include selections from the Babylonian Talmud, work in early modern cultural history, and studies of the culture of death and dying in contemporary Jewish communities, including the life and culture of Jewish cemeteries, especially in the New York area.#


$KANAD | Kannada$
&KANAD 1100 | Elements of Kannada Language and Culture&
#This course is designed for students with no previous knowledge of Kannada language who are participating in the university programs in Kannada-speaking areas of Karnataka and for students who intend to visit Karnataka and wish to learn daily usage of Kannada. Students will learn how to make simple phrases and sentences to interact with the locals. Emphasis will be on appropriate behavior and how to respect the local culture and habits.#


$KHMER | Khmer$
&KHMER 1122 | Elementary Khmer II&
#Gives a thorough grounding in speaking and reading.#
&KHMER 2202 | Intermediate Khmer II&
#Continuing instruction in spoken and written Khmer. Intermediate level of reading Khmer.#
&KHMER 3302 | Advanced Khmer II&
#Continuing instruction in spoken and written Khmer; emphasis on enlarging vocabulary, increasing reading speed, and reading various genres and styles of prose.#


$KOREA | Korean$
&KOREA 1102 | Elementary Korean II&
#Continuation of KOREA 1101. Designed to help students acquire the 4 skills (listening, speaking, reading and writing) of the Korean language and to become familiar with its culture. Basic knowledge of Korean grammar, vocabulary, expressions and cultural points will be given during the lab. The students will then have an opportunity to practice the learned knowledge in lectures. The goal of this course is to refine their survival skills in Korean. By the end of the semester, students will be able to engage in simple conversations with native Koreans on subjects familiar to them in all time frames (present, past, and future): school life, family and friends, traffic and transportation, vacation, food and restaurant, hobbies, etc. Korean typing skill is required.#
&KOREA 1110 | Elementary Korean Reading and Writing II&
#Continuation of KOREA 1109. Focuses on communicative skills in speaking, listening, reading and writing by introducing a wide range of linguistic resources. Students will command daily conversation in different cultural contexts and develop an ability to summarize and reflect on literary texts and films both in oral and written modes. Students will be able to create a discourse regarding topics such as birthday, campus life, family, shopping and hobbies. Also, students will write and revise their own work regularly to improve linguistic accuracy and reduce error production.#
&KOREA 2202 | Intermediate Korean II&
#Continuation of KOREA 2201 .  The course helps students develop further communicative competence by understanding and producing complex linguistic structures and pragmatically appropriate expressions in cultural contexts. Students will use linguistic tools to describe and express their stance, justification, attitudes, evaluation and complex clausal relations. Students will command a lengthy discourse regarding various topics such as holidays, birthday, cultural differences, doctor-patient talk and job interview.#
&KOREA 2210 | Intermediate Korean Reading and Writing II&
#Continuation of KOREA 2209. Designed for Korean heritage students who can understand and speak Korean, but especially need to refine their reading and writing skills. Students will acquire concrete knowledge of grammar to use in everyday conversation, and will minimize their spelling errors in writing, through frequent discussion and composition about Korean culture, society and history. They will become confident in reading paragraph-length readings in Korean, be able to write their reflections on the passages that they have read, and speak with ease when participating in the classroom discussions. Various projects will enhance students' overall linguistic and intercultural competence. Korean typing skill is required.#
&KOREA 3302 | High Intermediate Korean II&
#Continuation of KOREA 3301. Students will continue to refine their high-intermediate language skills. Authentic published materials and documentary video-clips will be introduced in order for students to be exposed to an advanced level of Korean. Students will discuss and write an essay on topics regarding Seoul, South Korea and North Korea, housing in Korea, customs and superstition of Korea, Korean folk tales and proverbs, Korean culture of community, and Korea during the Japanese colonial period. Students are given the opportunity to do research on Korean culture and society following an academic research format and give an oral presentation in class.#
&KOREA 4402 | Advanced Korean II&
#Continuation of KOREA 4401. Designed for students to acquire advanced language skills (speaking, listening, reading and writing) through Content-Based Instruction and Project-Based Language Learning. Students will gain profound knowledge in various fields on Korea through discussion and composition: Current issues in Korean society, Korean people's thoughts and mind, tradition, history and culture. With frequent discussions and compositions on various contemporary news articles, documentaries, and a novel, students are encouraged to become Intercultural Communicative Citizens and learn the contents through the language. The expected student outcome is to gain confidence in the academic level of discussions and compositions by critical thinking and analyzing. Korean typing skill is required.#


$LA | Landscape Architecture$
&LA 1420 | Grounding in Landscape Architecture II&
#This course applies fundamentals of landscape design to small-scale site-planning projects. Work in the studio introduces students to the design process, design principles, construction materials, and a wide array of graphic representation. Projects are selected at a variety of scales to expose students to a broad overview of landscape architecture.#
&LA 2020 | Medium of the Landscape II&
#Focuses on the role of materials and natural systems in design at multiple scales. Design strategies, theory and vocabulary in landscape architecture and allied disciplines are explored within the projects.#
&LA 3020 | Integrating Theory and Practice II&
#This studio builds upon prior course work with an expectation that participants can creatively manipulate the program and conditions of a site or area, with increased emphasis on contemporary technology. The course focuses on the expression of design solutions that grow from and affirm an explicit sense of site and place. Social, cultural, physical, and historical factors and their relationship to site design and planning are critically explored through theory and practice.#
&LA 3180 | Site Assembly&
#This course intends to establish a solid base of technical knowledge about the physical and performative characteristics of traditional building materials and emerging alternatives realted to landscape architecture. In addition, the course encourages students to become astute observers and skilled recorders at the detail to landscape scales, while obtaining a greater materials sensibility to the design and construction processes that eventually translate into built landscapes. This includes the investigation of phenomenal elements and natural processes that take part in the integral relationships established between site assemblies and design intent or material expression. During the course of the semester students will be asked to challenge definitions of material convention, invention, and intervention; through lectures, workshops, discussions, and field trips. Students will examine materials and methods of landscape construction; frameworks for material selection and application; and representations for detail prototyping and construction documentation.#
&LA 4020 | Capstone Community Design Studio&
#Community and ecological infrastructure design studio.#
&LA 4030 | Directed Study: The Concentration&
#Working with their advisor, students create a written and visual document that describes the concentration intent.#
&LA 4100 | Computer Applications in Landscape Architecture&
#Designed to develop a working knowledge of AutoCAD as a tool for design and construction documentation.  Explores the link between AutoCAD, Adobe Create Suite and Microsoft Office softwares.#
&LA 4120 | Professional Practice&
#This course presents the student with an understanding of the emerging role of the professional landscape architect. The course helps students choose a type of practice and introduces the problems and opportunities one may encounter in an office or in other professional situations. Topics include the diversity of types of professional practice, marketing professional services, office and project management, construction administration, and ethics.#
&LA 4830 | Seminar in Landscape Studies&
#Topical lecture series and seminars with a different subject and method each time it is offered. Students enrolled in the graduate version of the course (LA 5830) will submit written responses to the presentations given, evaluating the content delivered and reflecting on how it impacts their own sense of the design disciplines.#
&LA 4960 | Internship in Landscape Architecture&
#In this course, students participate in an experiential learning opportunity relevant to the student's focus of study or career goals in landscape architecture. A Landscape Architecture faculty member must serve as supervisor and complete the term grade report. Specific learning goals for the experience are arranged by the student with their internship faculty supervisor and the internship host prior to the start of the internship. All internship courses must adhere to the CALS Internship Guidelines.#
&LA 4970 | Individual Study in Landscape Architecture&
#Work on special topics by individuals or small groups.#
&LA 4980 | Undergraduate Teaching&
#Designed to give qualified undergraduates experience through actual involvement in planning and teaching courses under the supervision of department faculty members.#
&LA 4990 | Undergraduate Research&
#Permits outstanding undergraduates to carry out independent research in landscape architecture under academically appropriate faculty supervision. Research goals should include description, prediction, and explanation, and should generate new knowledge in the field of landscape architecture.#
&LA 5020 | Composition and Theory II&
#Studio course emphasizing the design process and principles ingenerating design ideas, concepts and plans. The course focuses on the aestheties and functionality of site-specific design.#
&LA 5060 | Graphic Communication II&
#Intermediate-level course focusing on modes of landscape representation from ideation to presentation. Representation modes may include freehand, process drawing, and analysis and orthographic drawing; concept modeling; composite drawings; and visual books.#
&LA 5100 | Computer Applications in Landscape Architecture&
#Designed to develop a working knowledge of AutoCAD as a tool for design and construction documentation.  Explores the link between AutoCAD, Adobe Create Suite and Microsoft Office softwares.#
&LA 5830 | Seminar in Landscape Studies&
#Topical lecture series and seminars with a different subject and method each time it is offered. Students enrolled in the graduate version of the course (LA 5830) will submit written responses to the presentations given, evaluating the content delivered and reflecting on how it impacts their own sense of the design disciplines.#
&LA 5900 | Theoretical Foundations&
#This seminar is intended to provide Landscape Architecture Students (as well as Architecture, Planning students) with knowledge of the most relevant histories, theories and critical discourses related to the field from the scope of Landscape Design.  We tend to think that theories provide the insight to embitter practice.  However, there has been practice that provoked and enhanced disciplinary debate and actually generated a "paradigm shift".  The course launches a research question: it is only through the examination of influential design works that we can build the multiple dialogues between theory and practice: explore how theory is embedded into disciplinary production and study how pioneer works create specific and innovative disciplinary literature.#
&LA 5960 | Graduate Internship in Landscape Architecture&
#In this course, students participate in an experiential learning opportunity relevant to the student's focus of study or career goals in landscape architecture. A Landscape Architecture faculty member must serve as supervisor and complete the term grade report. Specific learning goals for the experience are arranged by the student with their internship faculty supervisor and the internship host prior to the start of the internship. All internship courses must adhere to the CALS Internship Guidelines.#
&LA 5970 | Graduate Individual Study in Landscape Architecture&
#Work on special topics by individuals or small groups.#
&LA 5980 | Graduate Teaching&
#Designed to give qualified students experience through involvement in planning and teaching courses under the supervision of faculty members. The experience may include leading discussion sections, preparing, assisting in desk critiques, and presenting lectures. There are assigned readings and discussion sessions on education theory and practice throughout the semester.#
&LA 6020 | Integrating Theory and Practice II&
#This studio builds on prior course work with an expectation that participants can creatively manipulate the program and conditions of a site, with increased emphasis on contemporary technology and 'best' green practices. Projects focus upon the expression of design solutions that grow from and affirm an explicit sense of site and place. Social, cultural, physical, and historic factors and their relationship to site design and planning are critically explored through theory and practice.#
&LA 6030 | Directed Study: The Concentration&
#Working with their advisor, students create a written and visual paper that documents the concentration intent.#
&LA 6120 | Professional Practice&
#This course presents teh student with an understanding of the emerging role of the professional landscape architect.  The course helps students choose a type of practice and introduces the problems and opportunities one may encounter in an office or in other professional situations.  Topics include the diversity of types of professional practice, marketing professional services, office and project management, construction administration, and ethics.#
&LA 6180 | Site Assembly&
#This course intends to establish a solid base of technical knowledge about the physical and performative characteristics of traditional building materials and emerging alternatives realted to landscape architecture. In addition, the course encourages students to become astute observers and skilled recorders at the detail to landscape scales, while obtaining a greater materials sensibility to the design and construction processes that eventually translate into built landscapes.  This includes the investigation of phenomenal elements and natural processes that take part in the integral relationships established between site assemblies and design intent or material expression.  During the course of the semester students will be asked to challenge definitions of material convention, invention, and intervention; through lectures, workshops, discussions, and field trips.  Students will examine materials and methods of landscape construction; frameworks for material selection and application; and representations for detail prototyping and construction documentation.#
&LA 6940 | Special Topics in Landscape Architecture&
#Topical subjects in landscape architectural design, theory, history, or technology. Includes group study of topics not considered in other courses.#
&LA 7020 | Advanced Design Studio&
#This advanced design studio provides students in the final year of the graduate program in Landscape Architecture with the opportunity to work on complex, real-time projects. The overarching goal of this course is to test the student's theoretical, methodological, technical, and representational competency and ability to engage with a range of scales and issues. Through intensive studio work, seminar sessions, independent research, and site visits, students gain the knowledge and skills necessary to develop sound and creative solutions to environmental design problems.#
&LA 8900 | Master's Thesis in Landscape Architecture&
#Independent research, under faculty guidance leading to the development of a comprehensive and defensible design or study related to the field of landscape architecture. Work is expected to be completed in final semester of enrollment.#


$LATA | Latin American Studies$
&LATA 1220 | Elementary Quechua II&
#1210-1220 is an introductory sequence that allows students to develop basic fluency in Quechua, the most widely spoken indigenous language in the Americas. Students learn elements of Quechua's phonetics, vocabulary, morphology and syntax through an interactive approach and gain awareness of regional and dialectal differences. The course focuses on oral and written skills, with emphasis on tasks based on familiar contexts of use. It also introduces learners to the history, culture and geography of the Andes through exposure to cultural practices, proverbs, folklore, and artefacts of the region (e.g. textiles). Students will reflect on Quechua as an endangered language and on the significance of keeping this very popular indigenous language of Latin America alive.#
&LATA 1950 | The Invention of the Americas&
#When did the 'Americas' come in to being? Who created 'them' and how? What other geographic units of analysis might we consider in thinking about what Iberian explorers and intellectuals initially called the 'fourth part' of the world? Given the scope and extent of the Spanish and Portuguese empires, could 'the Americas' extend from the Caribbean to the Philippines? This course takes up such questions as a means to explore the history of what would become-only in the nineteenth century-'Latin America.' We move from the initial "encounters" of peoples from Africa and Iberia with the "New World," the creation of long-distance trade with, and settlement in, Asia, and the establishment of colonial societies, through to the movements for independence in most of mainland Spanish America in the early 19th century and to the collapse of Spanish rule in the Pacific and Caribbean later that century. Through lectures, discussions and the reading of primary sources and secondary texts, the course examines the economic and social organization of the colonies, intellectual currents and colonial science, native accommodation and resistance to colonial rule, trade networks and imperial expansion, labor regimes and forms of economic production, and migration and movement.#
&LATA 2170 | Early Modern Iberian Survey&
#This course explores major texts and themes of the Hispanic tradition from the 11th to the 17th centuries. We will examine general questions on literary analysis and the relationship between literature and history around certain events, such as medieval multicultural Iberia, the creation of the Spanish Inquisition in the 15th century and the expulsion of the Jews in 1492; the encounter between the Old and the New Worlds; the 'opposition' of high and low in popular culture, and of the secular and the sacred in poetry and prose. Readings may be drawn from medieval short stories and miracle collections; chivalric romances, Columbus, Lazarillo de Tormes, Cervantes, Lope de Vega, Calderón, and Sor Juana Inés de la Cruz, among others.#
&LATA 2200 | Perspectives on Latin America&
#Interdisciplinary course offered every spring. Topics vary by semester, but readings always focus on current research in various disciplines and regions of Latin America. The range of issues addressed include the economic, social, cultural, and political trends and transitions in the area. In the weekly meetings, instructors and guest lecturers facilitate student discussions. Students taking the course are required to participate in all class discussions and write a research paper in their chosen focus area.#
&LATA 2307 | Histories of the African Diaspora&
#This seminar will introduce students to the expanding and dynamic historiography of the African diaspora. The most astute scholars of the African diaspora argue that diaspora is not to be conflated with migration for diaspora includes the cultural and intellectual work that constructs and reinforces linkages across time and space. Much of the early historiography of the African diaspora disproportionately focused on Anglophone theorists whose intellectual output engaged thinkers and communities in Anglophone West Africa, Britain, the Caribbean and the United States. Recent interventions in the historiography of the African diaspora has significantly broadened its geographical conceptualization by including a larger segment of Western Europe, Latin America and Asia. In addition, scholars of Africa are increasingly exploring topics in the African diaspora. Using a range of archival and secondary sources, students will explore the material, cultural and intellectual factors that are remaking the historiography of the African diaspora.#
&LATA 2381 | Corruption, Collusion, and Commerce in Early America and the Caribbean&
#Corruption in politics and economics has become a significant issue in the modern world. This course introduces students to the study of corruption and collusion from the perspective of early America and the Caribbean from 1500 through 1800. By examining the historical evolution of corruption, the course addresses questions such as: What is corruption and, by contrast, what is good governance? Who creates law and when is it enforced? Can societies be corrupt or only institutions? And, does economic corruption help or hurt financial development? Our readings and discussion will examine the intersection of politics, culture, gender, and economics. We will reflect on how early Americans understood corruption and collusion and what that can tell us about similar modern issues. In the end, the course focuses on the concept of corruption as a complex social function through the lens of bribery, piracy, sex crimes, and other forms of social deviancy.#
&LATA 2715 | A Global South: Chile, the Pacific and the World&
#This course examines the history of Chile from the 1700s to the present, always with an appreciation for its place in a broader world but always also with attention to its regional and national specificities and its links to the Pacific. Lectures will be paired with readings from various genres: fiction, poetry, journalism, manifestos, speeches, historical monographs, and short stories.#
&LATA 2800 | Perspectives on Brazil&
#This course provides an introduction and overview of Brazilian culture. It will study different periods of Brazilian history, through the analysis of films, literature, essays, visual arts, and music. Students will explore different definitions of Brazilian identity and "Brazilianness" focusing on key topics including the formation of the colonial Brazil and the emergence of the nation of Brazil as a tropical paradise; slavery and abolition; the particularities century; and the contradictions of the modernization process throughout the 20th century. We will consider elements of Brazilian popular culture such as Carnival, Samba, and "telenovels," and some of the most important cultural movements of the 20th century, such as "Modernismo," "Cinema Novo," and "Tropicalia." The primary objective of the course is to provide students with the relevant background to understand Brazilian cultural history.#
&LATA 3336 | Border Environments&
#This course focuses on a place and a concept where two of the most urgent issues of our times - migration and environmental degradation - converge, collide, and shape each other. It examines borders not as abstract lines on the map, but as dynamic hubs that connect human societies, politics, and cultures with the natural and built environments that we inhabit and transform. Through scholarly and creative work from an array of borders around the world, we will develop new theoretical approaches and methodological toolkits for rethinking and re-visioning borders in an era of climate change, toxic pollution, and mass extinction. The course encourages multi- and inter-disciplinary projects from students and will feature guests from diverse areas, disciplines, and practices.#
&LATA 3481 | Sustainability Education Policy in the U.S. and Ecuador&
#This course connects Cornell and USFQ students to study Sustainability Education Policy in the U.S. and Ecuador. Focusing on UN SDG 4, the course includes collaborative research, international exchange, and direct engagement with local educators and policymakers to address global education challenges and promote sustainable development.#
&LATA 3550 | Ancient Mexico and Central America&
#An introduction to ancient Mesoamerica, focusing on the nature and development of societies that are arguably the most complex to develop anywhere in the precolumbian Americas. The course provides a summary of the history of the region before the European invasion, but the emphasis is on the organization of Mesoamerican societies: the distinctive features of Mesoamerican cities, economies, political systems, religion. We begin by considering Mesoamerican societies at the time of the Spanish invasion. Our focus will be on descriptions of the Aztecs of Central Mexico by Europeans and indigenous survivors, in an attempt to extract from them a model of the fundamental organizational features of one Mesoamerican society, making allowances for what we can determine about the perspectives and biases of their authorsWe then review the precolumbian history of Mesoamerica looking for variations on these themes as well as indications of alternative forms of organization. We will also look at such issues as the transition from mobile to sedentary lifeways, the processes involved in the domestication of plants and animals, the emergence of cities and states, and the use of invasion-period and ethnographic information to interpret precolumbian societies in comparative perspective.#
&LATA 3609 | Brazilian Ensemble - Deixa Sambar&
#Deixa Sambar performs several styles of samba, Brazil's national music. Members need not have prior background in music-making, but a good sense of rhythm is desirable. Members include students as well as Ithaca community members, brasileiros as well as newcomers to Brazilian culture. Rehearsals develop playing skills, with a deep emphasis on cultural understanding of this vital, community-based music.#
&LATA 3680 | Modern and Contemporary Latin American Art&
#This course concerns a selection of influential artistic movements in Latin American from the early twentieth century to the present. Attention is given to issues such as the effects of colonialism and imperialism on Latin America's visual arts, the creation of national art, the relation of Latin American art and artists to cultural centers in Europe, The United States and other regions of the globe, the interaction of high art and popular culture, and the role of gender and race in various aspects of artistic practice. Students will also become acquainted with Latin American and Latinx artists working with new technologies.#
&LATA 3800 | Poetry and Poetics of the Americas&
#As globalization draws the Americas ever closer together, reshaping our sense of a common and uncommon American culture, what claims might be made for a distinctive, diverse poetry and poetics of the Americas? How might we characterize its dominant forms and alternative practices? What shared influences, affiliations, concerns and approaches might we find and what convergences and differences emerge? Ranging across North and South America, Central America and the Caribbean, this course will place in conversation such figures as Poe, Pound, Stein, Williams, Neruda, Vallejo, Borges, Parra, Bolaño, Césaire, Nourbese Philip, Hong, Long Soldier, Rankine, Lamar, Kaminsky, and Xie.#
&LATA 3801 | War and Revolution in 20th Century Latino History&
#This course examines war and revolution as drivers of migration from Latin America and the Spanish Caribbean to the United States and Canada. From the War of 1898 to the wars in Central America, war and revolution have displaced millions of people, prompting internal and cross-border migration. This history underscores how migration is multicausal—that is, produced by a wide and complex range of intersecting drivers. War and revolution disrupt livelihoods, produce scarcity, and create the insecurity that makes it impossible to exercise a basic human right to stay home. The course also examines how Latinos have become actors in U.S. wars and interventions in their countries of ancestry.#
&LATA 4000 | Contemporary Issues in Latin - Latino America&
#Interested in Latino Studies and Latin American Studies? This course will explore topics in Anthropology, Art, Economics, History, Literature, Government, Sociology, etc., of US Latino and Latin American contexts. Course features guest speakers from Cornell and other institutions.#
&LATA 4155 | Topics in Latin American Art&
#Topic: Latin American Moderinsims and Technology. The involvement of Latin American artists with modern media technologies dates at least to the late nineteenth century and has especially flourished in the last three decades. The canonical histories and criticism of Latin American art for the most part depict a history of artistic production in which technology plays a minor or invisible role. This construction of history reinforces the assumption that experimentation, innovation, and theorization in technological art are exclusive provinces of the developed world. As the history of art expands to include diverse areas of media arts and visual culture, the recognition of Latin American artists' involvement with technology is not only overdue but also essential to the development of more diverse and rigorous understandings of both modernity and modernism.#
&LATA 4334 | Caribbean Worlds: Landscape, Labor and Climate Imaginaries&
#The seminar will explore relations between the tangible effects of climate on urban, infrastructural, and ecological landscapes in the Caribbean and lived experiences of climate as mediated through literature, film, and other expressive forms. Topics will range from historical accounts of climate as 'catastrophe' – the effects of hurricanes, volcanoes, and earthquakes– to colonial histories of coerced labor, to climate as a more general horizon in the constitution of Caribbean worlds. The seminar draws on the work of anthropologist Anna Tsing, interpreting the industrialized-urbanized ecological territory in terms of "capitalist ruination" which, nonetheless, holds possibilities for other modes of environmentality, as the hazards effected by climate change fundamentally disrupt and transform the very urbanity constituted through colonial and later resource extractive appropriations.#
&LATA 4690 | Latin American and Latinx Environmentalisms&
#This course provides an introductory overview to environmental thought in Latin America and the Latinx diaspora. We will discuss pre-Columbian approaches to the nonhuman and colonialism's transformative impact on ecosystems in the hemispheric America's. We will then turn to contemporary debates about whether nature should be treated as a resource or as a commons, with special attention paid to Indigenous philosophers like Ailton Krenak, Latinx scholars like Laura Pulido, and visual artists like Laura Aguilar and Carolina Caycdo.#
&LATA 4910 | Latin American Literature&
#This course examines Latin American literature in the context of the visual and auditory of the twentieth century and early twenty-first century, in which mass media such as photography, film, and the Internet have threatened writing's "representational privilege" as a technology of information processing and storage. We will analyze how literature has been able to sustain its visibilty in the competitive media ecology: the power of mass media fantasies to mold the individual's subjectivity, and of the visual image to manipulate reality; the relationship between literature and popular culture and the market place: and the young writers' engagement with the new technologies of the information age.#
&LATA 4970 | Independent Study in Latin American Studies&
#Guided independent study with a faculty member.#
&LATA 6000 | Contemporary Issues in Latin-Latino America&
#Interested in Latino Studies and Latin American Studies? This course will explore topics in Anthropology, Art, Economics, History, Literature, Government, Sociology, etc., of US Latino and Latin American contexts. Course features guest speakers from Cornell and other institutions.#
&LATA 6155 | Topics in Latin American Art&
#Topic: Latin American Modernisms and Technology. The involvement of Latin American artists with modern media technologies dates at least to the late nineteenth century and has especially flourished in the last three decades. The canonical histories and criticism of Latin American art for the most part depict a history of artistic production in which technology plays a minor or invisible role. This construction of history reinforces the assumption that experimentation, innovation, and theorization in technological art are exclusive provinces of the developed world. As the history of art expands to include diverse areas of media arts and visual culture, the recognition of Latin American artists' involvement with technology is not only overdue but also essential to the development of more diverse and rigorous understandings of both modernity and modernism.#
&LATA 6255 | Ancient Mexico and Central America&
#An introduction to ancient Mesoamerica, focusing on the nature and development of societies that are arguably the most complex to develop anywhere in the precolumbian Americas. The course provides a summary of the history of the region before the European invasion, but the emphasis is on the organization of Mesoamerican societies: the distinctive features of Mesoamerican cities, economies, political systems, religion. We begin by considering Mesoamerican societies at the time of the Spanish invasion. Our focus will be on descriptions of the Aztecs of Central Mexico by Europeans and indigenous survivors, in an attempt to extract from them a model of the fundamental organizational features of one Mesoamerican society, making allowances for what we can determine about the perspectives and biases of their authors. We then review the precolumbian history of Mesoamerica looking for variations on these themes as well as indications of alternative forms of organization. We will also look at such issues as the transition from mobile to sedentary lifeways, the processes involved in the domestication of plants and animals, the emergence of cities and states, and the use of invasion-period and ethnographic information to interpret precolumbian societies in comparative perspective.#
&LATA 6334 | Caribbean Worlds: Landscape, Labor and Climate Imaginaries&
#The seminar will explore relations between the tangible effects of climate on urban, infrastructural, and ecological landscapes in the Caribbean and lived experiences of climate as mediated through literature, film, and other expressive forms. Topics will range from historical accounts of climate as 'catastrophe' – the effects of hurricanes, volcanoes, and earthquakes– to colonial histories of coerced labor, to climate as a more general  horizon in the constitution of Caribbean worlds. The seminar draws on the work of anthropologist Anna Tsing, interpreting the industrialized-urbanized ecological territory in terms of "capitalist ruination" which, nonetheless, holds possibilities for other modes of environmentality, as the hazards effected by climate change fundamentally disrupt and transform the very urbanity constituted through colonial and later resource extractive appropriations.#
&LATA 6336 | Border Environments&
#This course focuses on a place and a concept where two of the most urgent issues of our times - migration and environmental degradation - converge, collide, and shape each other. It examines borders not as abstract lines on the map, but as dynamic hubs that connect human societies, politics, and cultures with the natural and built environments that we inhabit and transform. Through scholarly and creative work from an array of borders around the world, we will develop new theoretical approaches and methodological toolkits for rethinking and re-visioning borders in an era of climate change, toxic pollution, and mass extinction. The course encourages multi- and inter-disciplinary projects from students and will feature guests from diverse areas, disciplines, and practices.#


$LATIN | Latin$
&LATIN 1201 | Elementary Latin I&
#Introductory course designed to prepare students to start reading Latin prose at the end of a year. The class moves swiftly and includes extensive memorization of vocabulary and paradigms; study of Latin syntax; and written homework, quizzes, tests, and oral drills.#
&LATIN 1202 | Elementary Latin II&
#This course is a continuation of LATIN 1201, using readings from various authors and prepares students for LATIN 1205.#
&LATIN 1205 | Intermediate Latin I&
#Introduces students to reading original Latin text. Covers complex syntax and reviews the grammar presented in LATIN 1202, LATIN 1204.#
&LATIN 2201 | Latin Prose&
#Topic: Pliny's letters.#
&LATIN 3203 | Roman Poetry&
#Topic: Ovid's Metamorphoses and love poetry.#
&LATIN 3286 | Independent Study in Latin, Undergraduate Level&
#May be taken upon completion of one semester of work at the 3000-level. To be taken only in exceptional circumstances. Must be arranged by the student with their advisor and the faculty member who has agreed to direct the study. To be approved by the DUS.#
&LATIN 4223 | Topics in Medieval Latin Literature&
#This topics seminar will explore genres, forms, and theories of Medieval Latin poetry in the twelfth and thirteenth centuries (with a few forays into the fourteenth century and beyond). Topics include biblical and liturgical verse, historical epic, philosophical and didactic poetry, satire and parody, the ars versificandi, and historical/contemporary critical approaches to Medieval Latin poetics (Faral, Raby, Norberg, Zumthor, Leupin, Tilliette, Kay, et al.).#
&LATIN 5211 | Elementary Latin I&
#Introductory course designed to prepare students to start reading Latin prose at the end of a year. The class moves swiftly and includes extensive memorization of vocabulary and paradigms; study of Latin syntax; and written homework, quizzes, tests, and oral drills.#
&LATIN 5212 | Elementary Latin II&
#Continuation of LATIN 5211, using readings from various authors; prepares students for LATIN 5215.#
&LATIN 5215 | Intermediate Latin I&
#Introduces students to reading original Latin text. Covers complex syntax and reviews the grammar presented in LATIN 5212, LATIN 5214.#
&LATIN 5221 | Latin Prose&
#Topic: Pliny's letters.#
&LATIN 5233 | Roman Poetry&
#Topic: Ovid's Metamorphoses and love poetry.#
&LATIN 7223 | Topics in Medieval Latin Literature&
#This topics seminar will explore genres, forms, and theories of Medieval Latin poetry in the twelfth and thirteenth centuries (with a few forays into the fourteenth century and beyond). Topics include biblical and liturgical verse, historical epic, philosophical and didactic poetry, satire and parody, the ars versificandi, and historical/contemporary critical approaches to Medieval Latin poetics (Faral, Raby, Norberg, Zumthor, Leupin, Tilliette, Kay, et al.).#
&LATIN 7262 | Latin Philosophical Texts&
#Reading and translation of Latin philosophical texts.#
&LATIN 7272 | Graduate Seminar in Latin&
#Topic: Roman ways of reading.#
&LATIN 7920 | Independent Study in Latin&
#Independent study for graduate students only.#


$LAW | Law$
&LAW 2650 | Psychology and Law&
#This course explores how cognitive, social & clinical psychology are used in law. Law makes many assumptions about human psychology, and lawyers and judges regularly rely on psychological research in their cases. The course examines the psychology underlying criminal confessions; children's testimony; the insanity defense; risk assessment; judge and jury decision making; criminal punishment; constitutional law; and common law (tort, contract, and property) disputes. The course assesses the use and misuse of psychology in these subjects.#
&LAW 4013 | Antisemitism in the Courts and in Jurisprudence&
#Antisemitism, a deep-seated prejudice against Jews, is seeing a global revival. The most brutal U.S. instance was the 2018 Tree of Life Synagogue massacre, where Robert G. Bowers, an active anti-Semitic online poster, took 11 lives. Tried in 2023, he was condemned to death for his crimes. As emphasized by Assistant U.S. Attorney Soo C. Song, Bowers was driven by his belief that Jews are "a cancer upon the planet." Bowers' trial was only the most recent in a series of trials and judicial proceedings, both in the U.S. and internationally, that had antisemitism at their core in a myriad of ways. This course examines various manifestations of antisemitism in law and jurisprudence, from 19th century Europe to early 20th century America to Nazi Germany and the Stalinist U.S.S.R. to the present. Among the topics covered are blood libel trials, the Dreyfus affair in France, the Leo Frank trial in Georgia, the defamation case against Henry Ford, the Nazi Nuremberg laws, the annihilation of European Jews as the core of the crimes against humanity charge at the International Military Tribunal at Nuremberg, and contemporary proceedings charging a hostile anti-Semitic environment at certain U.S. colleges and universities under Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964.#
&LAW 4051 | Death Penalty in America&
#The death penalty has gotten increased media attention due to high profile death row exonerations, and has long been under siege for other reasons, such as racial disparities in its imposition and the prevalence of very poor representation by defense counsel. This course surveys the legal and social issues that arise in the administration of the death penalty. The reading will be largely comprised of reported death penalty cases, but will be augmented by a variety of other sources, including empirical studies of the death penalty and the litigation experience of the professors. Although the focus will be on capital punishment as practiced in the United States, we will also consider international and comparative perspectives. Guest speakers will provide a range of views, and law students with experience working on capital cases will lead discussion sections.#
&LAW 4081 | International Human Rights Law and Advocacy&
#This course will introduce students to the law and practice of international human rights. Students will think critically about the effectiveness of the international human rights system by examining its successes, failures, and dilemmas in preventing and responding to human rights abuse. Topics covered include the origins of international human rights; the role of international, regional, and domestic institutions and actors in enforcing human rights; critiques of the human rights movement; challenges encountered in human rights advocacy; and the relationship of the United States to the international system for the protection of human rights. The course will also explore issues such as the immigration, the death penalty, gender justice, climate change, global poverty, racism and xenophobia, and responses to mass atrocities. Throughout this interactive course, students will have frequent opportunities to step into the shoes of a human rights advocate and work individually and with their classmates to address simulated human rights problems.#
&LAW 4131 | The Nature, Functions, and Limits of Law&
#A general-education course to acquaint students with how our legal system pursues the goals of society. The course introduces students to various perspectives on the nature of law, what functions it ought to serve in society, and what it can and cannot accomplish. The course proceeds in the belief that such matters constitute a valuable and necessary part of a general education, not only for pre-law students but especially for students in other fields. Assigned readings comprise legal materials and also secondary sources on the legal process and the role of law in society. The classes include discussion and debate about current legal and social issues, including equality, safety, the environment, punishment, and autonomy.#
&LAW 4443 | International Environmental Law and Policy&
#No description available.#
&LAW 4556 | Gender, Race, and Law in Global Political Economy&
#No description available.#
&LAW 5001 | Civil Procedure&
#An introduction to civil litigation, from commencement of an action through disposition on appeal, studied in the context of the federal procedural system. Also, a detailed consideration of federalism and ascertainment of applicable law; jurisdiction, process, and venue; and former adjudication.#
&LAW 5061 | Criminal Law&
#An introductory study of the criminal law, including theories of punishment, analysis of the elements of criminal liability and available defenses, and consideration of specific crimes as defined by statute and the common law.#
&LAW 5081 | Lawyering&
#Lawyering is a full-year course designed to introduce first-year students to lawyering skills, with primary emphasis on legal writing, analysis, research, and oral presentations. Assignments are usually set in the context of a simulated law office (or judge's chambers). In the fall semester, students write predictive memoranda that point out the strengths and weaknesses of their client's case. To prepare the memoranda, students may need to determine the facts of the case by conducting interviews or depositions. Acting as junior attorneys, students will also make an oral presentation to a supervising attorney. The spring semester focuses on persuasive advocacy. Students prepare a memorandum, motion, or brief for submission to a court and, later, orally argue for their positions in a simulated court session. Throughout the year, students also learn the fundamentals of legal research. Instruction occurs not only in full-class sessions but also in individual conferences. Students receive extensive feedback on each major assignment.#
&LAW 5090 | Advanced Financial Statement Analysis&
#This course builds on the material of NBA 5060 and focuses on more advanced financial statement topics and specialized industries. Topics may include investment research, accounting analysis, accounting quality, credit analysis, and advanced valuation issues.   Instruction focuses on a combination of lecture and case-based discussion.  Students are expected to have taken NBA 5060 or possess a good understanding of basic financial statement analysis.  The material is designed to broaden student's understanding of financial statement analysis and complement the tools developed in NBA 5060. The course deliverables include case write-ups, an equity research project, and a final exam.#
&LAW 5121 | Property&
#This is a course in basic property law. It covers acquisitions of rights in property, estates in land, concurrent ownership, landlord/tenant relations, and regulation of land use.#
&LAW 5443 | International Environmental Law and Policy&
#No description available.#
&LAW 6000 | Law In-Absentia Study&
#This course is for Law students who have been approved for one semester of in-absentia study at an ABA accredited law school.#
&LAW 6001 | Accounting for Lawyers&
#This course is designed to introduce students to the basic concepts and fundamentals of financial accounting. It will focus on (1) accrual accounting concepts, principles and conventions, (2) the presentation of financial statements (balance sheets, income statements, statements of cash flow), (3) the interpretation and analysis of financial statements, and (4) the use and misuse of accounting information. The goal of the course is to enable students to critically review a company's financial statements. The course is intended for students with no prior background in accounting and is limited to students who have had no college accounting courses (or equivalent). Students with one or two college level accounting courses or other modest accounting background may take this course for a JD letter grade only with permission of the instructor.#
&LAW 6010 | Civil Procedure for LLMs&
#An introduction to U.S. civil litigation for students pursuing an LL.M. degree. The course will survey the phases of a lawsuit and consider other procedural matters, including multiparty litigation, former adjudication, jurisdiction, and federalism.#
&LAW 6011 | Administrative Law&
#An introduction to the constitutional and other legal issues posed by the modern administrative state. Topics include: procedural due process, separation of powers, procedural modes of administrative policymaking; judicial review of agency action; and the oversight and control relationships between agencies and Congress or the President. The course provides a working familiarity with the fundamentals of administrative procedure, as well as a larger inquiry into the role of agencies in our constitutional system - and the effect of legal doctrine on shaping that role.#
&LAW 6012 | Administrative Law Research&
#This course will focus on learning to use the legal sources used and produced by the U.S. federal executive branch agencies, with the opportunity to improve research skills. Students will regularly perform legal research and other lawyering skills using regulations, statutes, administrative decisions, and guidance materials.#
&LAW 6013 | Business Litigation&
#Many of our most important and most difficult lawsuits are business-to-business cases. Many involve high-stakes litigation; some are enterprise threatening. All present challenges to the trial lawyers, often novel challenges. This course will cover the prosecution and defense of business lawsuits, from pre-filing though trial, identifying what these lawsuits have in common with other civil suits and exploring the important and often outcome-determining differences. These cases are won or lost in discovery; many on motions to dismiss and summary judgment. Some are tried to the court; some are tried to juries. They are found on the dockets of every state and federal court. Students will be evaluated on their preparation and participation (as associate lawyers working on a case) during the course. They will be asked to select a segment of a case and present a paper for the handling and presentation of that segment of the case (e.g., Motions to Dismiss; Motions for Summary Judgment; Discovery; Trial), which will be reviewed and evaluated.#
&LAW 6025 | Private Funds&
#Private equity funds, hedge funds and other alternative investments are a significant segment of investment activity worldwide. They are often the subjects of rigorous debate as to the potential benefits and costs they deliver to the global economy and the appropriate levels of regulations and controls. This course introduces private equity and hedge funds, their respective historical background, structure and business and regulatory considerations. Students will learn the basic framework applicable to the structuring and ongoing matters relating to funds and fund managers. Through reading materials, interactive class discussions and guest lectures students will explore the perspectives of fund managers, investors, regulators and other industry participants.#
&LAW 6027 | Campus Mediation Practicum&
#This course is offered to students interested in acquiring the knowledge, skills and techniques necessary to mediate campus disputes.
 
In the first segment of the course, students will be introduced to the guiding principles of mediation and restorative conferencing. A review of the theories of conflict, its roots and its resolution, set the stage for the role mediation and restorative conferencing can effectively play in resolving conflict.  Students are introduced to the models of mediation and the benefits and challenges of each, including a comparative analysis of evaluative, facilitative, transformative, and restorative justice styles of mediation. 
 
In the second segment, students will be assigned to mediate and facilitate cases referred to the Scheinman Institute from the Office of Student Conduct and Community Standards, as well as other campus partners.  The role of gender, race, culture, ethics and impasse in mediation will all be examined and incorporated into simulations and case studies.  
 
One full credit of this course will be dedicated to restorative justice and mediation experience outside of the classroom. Students will have several opportunities to apply their knowledge of mediation and restorative justice to acquire the skills necessary to become effective mediators and facilitators through on-campus student-based mediations and restorative processes. Following each case assignment, students will be required to provide a reflection and class presentation analyzing the nature of the complaint, the approach and techniques employed during the case and the student's evaluation of what worked and did not work in their attempt to resolve the conflict. Oversight will be provided by the course instructor.#
&LAW 6029 | Campus Mediation Practicum II: Advanced Issues in Restorative Justice&
#This course is offered to students interested in furthering their knowledge of the principles and practices of restorative justice. Students will also acquire the knowledge, skills and techniques necessary to mediate complex campus disputes. The course considers the needs and roles of key stakeholders (victims, offenders, communities, justice systems) and explores in depth the principles and values of restorative justice. It also identifies challenges to restorative justice - the dangers, the pitfalls – as well as possible strategies to help prevent restorative justice from failing to live up to its promise. Much of the course is organized around the issue of harm and crime within our legal system. However, students will also be exposed to restorative justice in multiple contexts, including issues in higher education.#
&LAW 6030 | Philosophy of Punishment&
#This course addresses central debates in the philosophy of legal punishment. We will analyze the leading theories of punishment, including the familiar retributivist and deterrent alternatives, as well as lesser-known hybrid, self-defense, and rehabilitative accounts. We will ask whether each theory offers a general justification for establishing institutions of punishment, and whether each theory justifies specific acts of punishment. Other topics may include criminal responsibility, the legitimacy of collateral consequences (e.g., the denial of felons' voting rights), alternatives to punishment, etc.#
&LAW 6060 | Financial Statement Analysis&
#The purpose of this course is to give students a broad understanding of financial statement analysis and valuation issues. The emphasis is on helping students understand the basic equity research process for use in investment and business decision applications. The course format is a combination of examples, case studies, and lectures. Potential topics include information sources, strategic ratio analysis, accounting quality, non-GAAP metrics, cash flow analysis, forecasting financial statements, and firm valuation using discounted cash flow and residual income techniques. The course deliverables include an equity research project and a final exam.#
&LAW 6067 | Compliance Systems&
#This course is designed to introduce students to the basic concepts and fundamentals of the compliance function within a company or organization. It will focus on (1) the drivers behind the development of rules (2) practical issues involved in rule creation (3) the process of training, or "selling," rule systems to the appropriate people (4) policing compliance, including investigations and enforcement of rules, and (5) the consequences of failing to operate a compliance program or doing it wrong. The course relies upon case studies from businesses and organizations, with an emphasis on real life situations and problem solving techniques. A primary argument of the course is that appropriate and efficient internal compliance will support the central mission of the business and control costs.#
&LAW 6081 | Animal Law&
#This course will examine a cutting-edge and constantly evolving field of law, exploring the statutory and case law in which the legal, social, or biological nature of nonhuman animals is an important factor. The course encompasses companion animals, wildlife, and animals raised for food, entertainment, and research, and will survey traditional law topics like torts, contracts, criminal law, constitutional law and federal laws as they intersect with animals. It will also explore the normative and legal ramifications of new food technologies including plant-based and cell-based meat. Grade will be based on participation in open-minded discussions, submission of short (1–2 page) weekly reflection papers that account for 15% of the final grade, and a take-home examination.#
&LAW 6114 | Big Red Ventures&
#Big Red Ventures is Cornell's student-run venture fund. Founded in 2000 as a student project, BRV fund managers source new investment opportunities, conduct opportunity assessments and due diligence, make investment recommendations, assess and vote on recommendations of other fund managers, and make investments in early-stage, high-growth startup companies. Fund managers also manage existing portfolio investments, conduct annual portfolio valuations, and prepare investor materials such as an annual report and annual meeting. Fund managers operate under the guidance and oversight of experienced practitioner faculty. BRV is a selective program, with an application and interview process open to MBAs, JDs, and PhD candidates; the course is only open to students who apply to become and are selected as fund managers (see brventurefund.com for application details and timing). Full participation at either the Ithaca or Cornell Tech campuses, both fall and spring semester, is required.#
&LAW 6127 | Transnational Litigation&
#This course will introduce students to the challenges posed by transnational disputes litigated in domestic courts, specifically U.S. federal courts. Topics will include personal jurisdiction, choice of law, regulatory conflict and extraterritoriality, grounds for declining jurisdiction, sovereign immunity, judgment enforcement, and judicial assistance treaties.#
&LAW 6131 | Business Organizations&
#An introduction to the legal rules, principles, and economic factors that influence the governance of business enterprises in the United States. While the principal focus of the course will be the governance of large, publicly-traded corporations, we will also devote some attention to agency relationships, partnerships, and closely-held corporations. Legal topics will include business formation and capitalization, fiduciary obligations, shareholder voting, derivative suits, corporate control transactions, and the purpose of the firm.#
&LAW 6135 | Bioethics Mediation and Resolution of Ethical Dilemmas in Health Care&
#The course will introduce students to the key ethical and legal principles that underlay this unique and important form of mediation. It will also provide a foundational understanding of bioethics and its interplay with law and medicine in clinical medicine. Topics to be discussed will include informed consent, health-care decision making, advance directives (health care proxies and living wills), surrogate decision-making for incapacitated adults and children, and end-of-life treatment issues, including medical futility.#
&LAW 6138 | Blockchain, DeFi and Evolving Regulatory Issues&
#DeFi and Evolving Regulatory Issues will meet on an accelerated timeline (8 weeks). This course provides students with foundational knowledge of the blockchain technology, its applications in decentralized finance (DeFi) and the evolution of the U.S. regulatory landscape in this space. By the end of the course, students should have a solid grasp of how proof-of-work and proof-of-stake blockchains work, along with the inner workings of the numerous well-known DeFi protocols built on the Ethereum blockchain. The course will discuss numerous case studies involving crypto payment, lending, investment and crypto exchanges. Students should also be able to independently analyze what potential regulatory issues a future blockchain product or service might face and how to address them. The course will place a heavy emphasis on crypto securities analysis and investment management-related regulatory issues. It will also introduce students to basic broker-dealer and securities exchange concepts under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.#
&LAW 6158 | Client Counseling&
#Clients come to lawyers seeking problem-solving advice. This course follows a "client-centered" approach to counseling that will examine techniques lawyers can use to help clients make good decisions. Class sessions will incorporate role plays that cover different stages of the counseling process, including clarifying clients' objectives and identifying alternatives and consequences, in litigation and transactional contexts.#
&LAW 6192 | Conflict of Laws&
#This course explores an increasingly important set of questions in state, federal, and international litigation: What principles frame the choice of substantive legal rules when legal problems transcend jurisdictional boundaries? How do courts choose which law to apply when the transactions, relationships, or occurrences at issue in a lawsuit implicate more than one state or country? How do federal courts conceive of their adjudicatory jurisdiction in the international system, the recognition of foreign judgments, and the extraterritorial application of US law? And how does arbitration, considered both as a substitute for judicial dispute resolution and as a system that still requires courts to enforce arbitral awards, fit within this regime? In addition to these general questions, the course will consider doctrinal devices that federal courts use to handle multi-forum litigation, including abstention, anti-suit injunctions, and preclusion.#
&LAW 6209 | Cornell Prison Education Program Teaching Practicum&
#Law students will learn to teach and communicate complex legal principles and lawyering skills to individuals incarcerated in nearby prisons. Students in the Practicum will co-teach a law related course at Auburn, Cayuga, or Five Points correctional facilities, as part of the Cornell Prison Education Program (CPEP), which offers college courses to students who are incarcerated and working toward their associates' degrees. Students will work with the professor to design a detailed law course syllabus, procure teaching materials, and teach a 2-hour class inside one of the prisons on a weekly basis. The classroom component will include reflection on prison legal issues, prison political economy, prison geography, and concepts such as prison reform and abolition, and will also include applying critical pedagogy to teaching rounds.#
&LAW 6230 | Copyright Law&
#Copyright is the basis of entertainment and information industries like film and television, news, music, book publishing, software, and video games. This course examines copyright law and policy in depth, along with business challenges that new technologies and artificial intelligence present for the protection and exploitation of copyrighted works. Topics covered include the subject matter of copyright; authorship; the scope of rights and limitations on those rights; duration and transfer; infringement; fair use; the Music Modernization Act; the Digital Millennium Copyright Act; and copyright licensing.#
&LAW 6235 | Corporate Bankruptcy and Restructuring&
#This course develops the framework for evaluating and managing firms' assets and liabilities in financial distress, including periods of formal bankruptcy and restructuring. It takes the perspective of managers as well as that of capital market participants ― e.g., distressed-debt investors, analysts, legal professionals, regulators ― that monitor and evaluate corporate policies in distress situations. The course will do so going beyond standard textbook coverage, making sense of practice and available research on financial distress, bankruptcy and reorganizations, looking at what professionals think and act, as well as in-depth study of real-world situations. All of these elements are integrated and analyzed with rigorous method. Our ultimate goal is to understand the objectives different economic agents mean to achieve given the institutional constraints they face in distress situations.#
&LAW 6264 | Criminal Procedures: Investigations&
#Criminal Procedure: Investigations examines the constitutional law that governs police attempts to solve crime and bring perpetrators to justice. The course considers the role of the Fourth Amendment prohibition against unreasonable searches and seizures as well as the Fifth Amendment ban on compelled self-incrimination, in guiding police behavior and in structuring the trials that follow constitutional violations. Students will evaluate the wisdom and constitutional validity of the Fourth Amendment exclusionary rule, which prohibits the introduction of evidence obtained as a result of an unreasonable search, and the well-known Miranda v. Arizona decision as it has evolved over time.#
&LAW 6267 | Race and the Law&
#No description available.#
&LAW 6273 | Consumer Data Privacy&
#No description available.#
&LAW 6299 | Culture and Diversity in Professional Sports Organizations&
#This course examines existing diversity initiatives within several North American professional sports organizations, (i.e., the National Football League ("NFL"), National Basketball Association ("NBA"), Major League Baseball ("MLB"), and Major League Soccer ("MLS").#
&LAW 6301 | Directed Reading&
#An examination of a topic through readings selected by arrangement between the instructor and an individual student or group of students (not exceeding eight).#
&LAW 6302 | Data Analytics and Modeling&
#This course will expose you to introductory statistics and data analysis techniques for understanding business situations and improving business decisions under uncertainty. Specific topics are data visualization, probability, sampling, confidence intervals, hypothesis testing, regression, prediction and causality, AI, and data ethics.#
&LAW 6305 | Digital Health Law&
#This course is designed to provide an understanding of the legal issues that arise in the world of digital health.  Advances in technology have transformed the delivery of healthcare, improving the efficacy of care as well as its efficiency; electronic medical records, digital clinical decision support and "big data" analysis are just a few areas where entrepreneurs are bringing forth new technology-enabled enterprises.  In this course, we will explore the opportunities and challenges that healthcare lawyers, providers, investors and entrepreneurs face, from a legal and regulatory perspective, in the digital health space.#
&LAW 6306 | Digital Property&
#No description available.#
&LAW 6311 | Education Law&
#This course focuses on selected legal issues that arise in the public and private education context, with emphasis on the elementary and secondary school setting. Topics considered include the legal and policy dimensions of the rights of students, parents, educators, and the state with respect to such issues as access to, control over, and regulation of the education setting and institutions. Issues germane to equal education opportunity, school finance, and school governance and regulation receive particular attention.#
&LAW 6315 | Topics in Higher Education Law&
#No description available.#
&LAW 6331 | Employment Law&
#Survey of major statutory schemes and common law doctrines that regulate the employer-employee relationship, other than laws regulating union formation and collective bargaining, which are covered in Labor Law. Topics covered include the common law of unjust dismissal, trade secrets, restrictive covenants, drug testing, free speech, and privacy. Major statutory schemes covered include Title VII and other antidiscrimination laws, the Fair Labor Standards Act, the Family and Medical Leave Act, and ERISA.#
&LAW 6332 | Employment Law Fundamentals&
#No description available.#
&LAW 6365 | Climate Change Law and Policy&
#No description available.#
&LAW 6392 | Ethics and Corporate Culture&
#In the high-pressure worlds of business and law, all too often good people do bad things. In many cases, the unethical behavior is due in part to a toxic corporate culture. The attitudes, values, and practices that prevail in their organizations induce otherwise ethical employees to take actions that violate widely shared norms of conduct. Such behavior can be costly-even disastrous-leading to ruined careers, tarnished corporate reputations, and legal liability for the individuals and their companies. In an environment where "only results matter," it can be difficult for a new MBA or law school graduate to recognize the risks. This course seeks to help MBAs and law students understand how a firm's culture, combined with common human tendencies, can tempt-or push-employees into unethical behavior. It also considers how employees can meet ethical challenges posed by their firms' cultures. Course consists of case studies and readings reporting on relevant research in psychology and organizational behavior, as well as the annual Day Family Ethics Lecture by a noted guest speaker from business, law, journalism, or academia.#
&LAW 6401 | Evidence&
#The rules of evidence in civil and criminal cases with emphasis on relevance, hearsay, authentication, witnesses, experts, and confrontation. The course focuses on the Federal Rules of Evidence, with some attention to how they diverge from the common law.#
&LAW 6431 | Federal Courts&
#This course examines the various constitutional, statutory, and judge-made doctrines that control access to the federal courts to vindicate federal rights. It is particularly valuable for those planning a career in public interest or the public sector, anyone else expecting to litigate extensively in federal court, and students who have or hope to obtain a judicial clerkship. Topics covered include: case or controversy limitations, including standing; constitutional and statutory limits on jurisdiction; causes of action for constitutional and statutory rights, including 42 U.S.C. §1983 and Bivens actions; bars to such actions, including sovereign immunity and abstention doctrines; and habeas corpus.#
&LAW 6441 | Federal Income Taxation&
#A basic course designed to develop understanding of tax concepts and ability to work effectively with the Internal Revenue Code, regulations, cases, and other tax materials.#
&LAW 6461 | Financial Institutions&
#This course explores the economic functions, institutional design, and regulation of financial institutions. Beginning with conventional deposit-taking banks, the course examines the risks embedded within the business of banking, along with how regulation seeks to manage these risks. It then expands this framework to examine several other forms of 'non-bank' financial intermediation including investment banks, insurance companies, wholesale funding markets, structured finance markets, money market and other investment funds, and financial market infrastructure. The course also examines some of the related consumer/investor protection problems and how financial regulation seeks to address them.#
&LAW 6465 | Global M and A Practice&
#It will provide a guidance on M&A practices in various jurisdictions, including the US, Europe, Japan and other emerging countries.  The course will address global M&A trends, various transaction structures, terms of acquisition agreements and a comparison of different M&A practices (e.g., US-style and UK-style), as well as other legal issues such as merger filings and anti-corruption.  The course will also introduce various aspects of Japanese corporates, including corporate governance, business cultures and commercial trends.#
&LAW 6471 | Health Law&
#This course will consider legal aspects of the organization, financing, and distribution of health care in the United States. It will emphasize issues of access, costs, and quality, and address the use of regulation, litigation and market-driven strategies to confront emerging problems. Readings will be from a health law casebook, supplemented by occasional handouts of current materials. The goal is to convey an appreciation of the challenges involved in providing health care to those in need and of the role of law and lawyers in meeting these challenges.#
&LAW 6501 | Insurance Law&
#Insurance is an increasingly important tool for the management of risk by both private and public enterprises. This course provides a working knowledge of basic insurance law governing insurance contract formation, insurance regulation, property, life, health, disability, and liability insurance and claims processes. The emphasis throughout the course is on the links between insurance theory, doctrine, and modern ideas about the functions of private law.#
&LAW 6511 | Intellectual Property&
#A survey of legal mechanisms for protecting intellectual property including patent, trademark, copyright, trade secret and related state law doctrines.#
&LAW 6554 | Historical and Theoretical Perspectives on Work Law: Race, Gender, and Capital&
#No description available.#
&LAW 6556 | Gender, Race, and Law in Global Political Economy&
#No description available.#
&LAW 6560 | Intermediate Accounting&
#This course is relevant to a general business career, but is particularly relevant to careers that involve the use of financial statements.  The specific accounting topics covered includes: Statement of Cash Flows; Income Taxes; Divestitures; Financial Assets (Investments and Hedges); Leases; Non-Financial Assets; Revenue Recognition; Pensions; Equity-based Compensation; and EPS.  My objective is to enable you to become more knowledgeable, skeptical consumers of financial information.  This objective will be achieved by a combination of lectures and analyzing and discussing cases that are based on actual financial statements.#
&LAW 6564 | International Taxation&
#This course examines the U.S. income tax laws and policies relating to the taxation of international transactions. Emphasis will be on fundamental issues, including international tax jurisdiction, source of income, the taxation of foreign persons with U.S. businesses or investments, the taxation of U.S. persons with foreign income, relief from double taxation of income subject to taxing jurisdiction of two countries, transfer pricing in transactions between related parties, and income tax treaties.#
&LAW 6568 | Internet Law, Privacy and Security&
#This is a survey course in Internet law, with particular emphasis on privacy and security. It is designed to teach lawyers what they need to know to work effectively with computer technologists, and vice versa. Topics covered may vary based on recent events, but will typically include jurisdiction, free speech, privacy, cybersecurity, e-commerce, digital property, intermediary liability, and network neutrality. What unites these disparate areas of law is that, in each of them, computer and network technologies are challenging settled legal understandings in similar ways. We will explore these recurring patterns of legal disruption and predict how they will play out online and offline.#
&LAW 6569 | Introduction to Depositions&
#Depositions are a critical component of pretrial discovery. Indeed, many cases are lost, won, or settled because of information gleaned at a deposition. Attorneys also often modify trial strategies because of a witness's performance at a deposition. Because depositions play such an important role in litigation, the majority of junior litigation attorneys can expect to deal with depositions in some manner from the very start of their careers. This introductory course will expose students to several facets of a deposition: preparing for deposition, asking questions at a deposition, defending the witness at a deposition, using documents at a deposition, and reviewing the transcript of a deposition. Students can expect to take and defend mock depositions and to observe and critique their fellow students' deposition skills. The course will culminate in a three-hour deposition in which students will team up to depose and defend two witnesses. Students must set aside one Saturday morning at the end of the semester for this deposition.#
&LAW 6584 | International Trade Law - Short Course&
#The course introduces the legal framework of international trade and the economic and political considerations surrounding international trade. The evolution of a global economy in the post-war period, the creation of the World Trade Organization (WTO) in 1995, and the announcement of new trade and economic policy by the U.S. administration have made the understanding of trade regulation and practice, and current trade policy issues, essential to one's knowledge of how the U.S. economy operates, how it interacts with other systems, and what will be necessary to compete successfully in the global marketplace and promote economic growth and job creation domestically. For example, the current trade disputes between the United States and China require an understanding of the international legal frameworks applying to them to assess the possible outcomes. This course will cover the legal framework of international trade under the auspices of the WTO system, the evolution of the trading system, current and future trade policy issues, and economic analysis of the international trading system.#
&LAW 6614 | Law Team&
#One or more students will be paired with a lawyer and/or law firm with substantial experience in technology and high-growth corporate transactions. Students will work under the supervision of the lawyer and/or law firm in providing legal support to student and other project teams, including studio teams, that are assigned to it. Through the law team process, students will have an opportunity to practice what they learn in the classroom, as well as become familiar with a range of legal and regulatory issues (and solutions) relating to technology and high-growth corporate transactions.#
&LAW 6625 | Law and Society in North Korea&
#This is an introductory course in North Korean law and society. This is a very rare opportunity to explore the law of North Korea—the most socialistic and secretive country in the world. Although overshadowed by many pressing issues, such as nuclear weapons, intercontinental ballistic missiles, and human rights, North Korea has enacted many laws since the 1990s to both promote its economy and control its society. While little is known about North Korea and even less is known about its laws, analyzing the socio-political and economic contexts of the changes and continuities of North Korean laws provides us with fresh insight into the history and society of the socialist country.#
&LAW 6641 | Professional Responsibility&
#This course is intended to provide a comprehensive overview of the law governing lawyers in a variety of practice settings, including transactional, counseling, and civil and criminal litigation. The course is not focused merely on the ABA's Model Rules, but draws extensively from judicial decisions in malpractice and disqualification cases, the new Restatement of the Law Governing Lawyers, and other sources of law. A major theme is the relationship between state bar disciplinary rules and the generally applicable law of tort, contracts, agency, procedure, and crimes. Another significant theme is the prevention of attorney discipline and malpractice liability through advance planning.#
&LAW 6654 | Negotiating Your Series A: Legal Aspects of Early Stage Venture Funding&
#This course will conduct a detailed examination of the key aspects of a venture-backed Series A funding round, including the business and legal relationships and interactions between founders, board members, and investors in considering and negotiating the key documents/provisions of the Series A funding round. The faculty will use their experiences representing startups, investors and other key stakeholders in both internal and outside counsel roles to review real-world examples and illustrate the various perspectives of the key parties and their respective negotiation strategies on critical points.#
&LAW 6661 | Constitutional Law of the European Union&
#This course introduces students to the law and institutions of the European Union. It examines the composition, organization, functions and powers of the Union's governing bodies; analyzes the Union's governing treaties and constitutional law; and studies the Union's decision-making processes. The course also explores broader questions of political, economic and legal integration, such as the proper relation between the Union's law and the domestic law of the Union's Member states, and the desirability and feasibility of using the E.U. as a model on which to pattern other transnational agreements.#
&LAW 6681 | International Law and Foreign Direct Investment&
#This course studies legal aspects of direct foreign investments. It seeks to identify legal problems that are likely to affect a commercial investment in a foreign country. Inter alia, it deals with the public international law principles and rules governing the establishment by foreign businesses of various factors of production (persons and capital) on the territory of other states and the protection of such investments. Thus, the course includes a discussion of the following topics: economic development and foreign capital; obstacles to the flow of investments to developing countries; guarantees to investors and investment codes; bilateral treaties; nationalization; joint ventures; project financing; transfer of technology; arbitration; investment insurance; unification of trade law; and the settlement of investment disputes.#
&LAW 6710 | Law and Literature&
#What can lawyers and judges learn from the study of literature? This course explores the relevance of imaginative literature (novels, drama, poetry, and film) to questions of law and social justice from a range of perspectives. We will consider debates about how literature can help to humanize legal decision-making; how storytelling has helped to give voice to oppressed populations over history; how narratives of suffering cultivate popular support for human rights; the role played by storytelling in a trial; and how literature can shed light on the limits of law and public policy.#
&LAW 6730 | Multicultural Work Environment I and II&
#The goal of this course is to promote an understanding of the challenges encountered in the work environment as a result of cultural differences. Students are required to complete a ten-page paper by September 15 following their summer internship.#
&LAW 6734 | Music Law&
#Music Law will be practical look at representing performers, bands, song writers, and others in the music industry. We will look at both the law and the industry, exploring the agreements that transfer rights between the various players and case law affecting those rights, as well as examining the industry itself and who those players are. Taught by Howard Leib, who has over thirty years experience in the music industry, having worked with artists such as Whitney Houston, B.B. King, Kiss, BeBe & CeCe Winans, Bobby McFerrin, and more.. Corporate clients have included MCA, BMG, Atlantic Records, Arista Records, Rhino Entertainment, Shout Factory Entertainment and 20th Century Fox. Students will also benefit from the insight of guest speakers from various areas of the industry. Topics are expected to include recording agreements, band agreements, touring, merchandising, licensing, songwriting, music publishing, management and others.#
&LAW 6761 | Principles of American Legal Writing&
#This course provides foreign-trained lawyers with an introduction to the American legal system and essential principles of legal writing, analysis and legal research skills in the United States. Students are afforded an opportunity to practice some of the forms of writing common to American legal practice by drafting documents such as memoranda and briefs in the context of representing hypothetical clients. Students are given the opportunity to conference individually with the instructor and to re-write assignments after receiving the instructor's comments.#
&LAW 6768 | Public Finance&
#In the U.S., federal government expenditures represent over one-third of the nation's GDP annually. Yet few seem to know much about the law-governed processes of federal budgeting, appropriating funds for, or otherwise financing US government operations. Still less do they generally understand the aims or consequences - short term and longer term - of these essential public sector activities economy-wide.#
&LAW 6811 | Secured Transactions&
#No description available.#
&LAW 6821 | Securities Regulation&
#This course analyzes key issues under the U.S. federal securities laws, principally the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, with respect to the domestic and international offer and sale of securities. It includes a study of what constitutes a security, the public offering process, mandatory disclosure requirements for public companies, exemptions from registration (including exempt global offerings), and potential liabilities and sanctions.#
&LAW 6862 | Supervised Experiential Learning&
#Supervised experiential learning courses allow students to complete a discrete pro bono advocacy project under faculty supervision. The course operates much like a directed reading or supervised writing – students must make arrangements directly with a faculty member. Only full-time, long-term members of the faculty may teach this course. The student's role must involve a substantial lawyering experience that implicates one or more of the Law School's learning outcomes. Work for the course should consist of the types of matters that are currently handled by the clinical program. If a student wishes to seek pro bono hours certification for their work in the course, the student and faculty member should ensure the work satisfies the relevant standard.#
&LAW 6871 | Supervised Writing&
#No description available.#
&LAW 6881 | Supervised Teaching and Supervised Writing - Lawyering Program Honors Fellows&
#Lawyering Program Honors Fellows serve for the full academic year as teaching assistants in the Lawyering course. With training and guidance from the Lawyering faculty, Honors Fellows work on myriad course-related tasks and some program-wide initiatives. In addition to meeting regularly with first-year students and critiquing papers, Honors Fellows may help design course assignments and documents, participate in simulations, and assist the research attorneys with the teaching of legal research. Honors Fellows also teach classes on the Bluebook. Additionally, Honors Fellows serve as educational mentors to first-year students and may participate in workshops on basic law-school skills.#
&LAW 6883 | Corporate Finance Transactions Workshop: Bootcamp&
#This course will cover the day-to-day function of lawyers practicing corporate finance (both in-house and as outside counsel). Topics will include basic corporate finance principles, accounting for lawyers and how to learn and stay on top of current issues and trends, non-GAAP measures, important investor disclosures in both the private and public company context, relations with the CFO, audit committee and board of directors and significant shareholders, capital raising and other transformative transactions and financings, developing high quality compliance and risk management policies and procedures, the impact of significant litigation and government investigations.#
&LAW 6896 | Technology Transactions II&
#This course provides a deep dive into the law and practice behind the agreements that govern how technology companies do business with each other and with consumers. In the spring, we will dive into additional kinds of technology contracts such as terms of service, privacy policies, and browsewrap or clickwrap agreements as well as a variety of special topics, which may include open source software, media and music licensing and distribution, and data licensing. Other areas of law and practice that relate to technology transactions, such as bankruptcy, government contracts, dispute resolution and ethics may also be covered.#
&LAW 6925 | Mass Torts&
#No description available.#
&LAW 6935 | Structural Inequality and Social Change: Theory and Practice&
#No description available.#
&LAW 6953 | Trade Secrets Law and Practice&
#This course will address the nature, protection, and defense of trade secrets, from their common law origins to their role in several recent high-profile cases.  We will do a deep dive into the different trade secret regimes at the state and federal level. We will review civil and criminal remedies and also examine how key international jurisdictions protect trade secrets (or not).  The goal of the course will be to develop an understanding of how trade secret protections work and how companies can guard their trade secrets in their interactions with investors, collaborators, customers, and competitors while steering clear of misappropriating the secrets of others.  We will also discuss the practicalities of trade secret litigation in the digital age.#
&LAW 6991 | Law Study Abroad&
#No description available.#
&LAW 7013 | Antisemitism in the Courts and in Jurisprudence&
#Antisemitism, a deep-seated prejudice against Jews, is seeing a global revival. The most brutal U.S. instance was the 2018 Tree of Life Synagogue massacre, where Robert G. Bowers, an active antisemitic online poster, took 11 lives. Tried in 2023, he was condemned to death for his crimes. As emphasized by Assistant U.S. Attorney Soo C. Song, Bowers was driven by his belief that Jews are "a cancer upon the planet." Bowers' trial was only the most recent in a series of trials and judicial proceedings, both in the U.S. and internationally, that had antisemitism at their core in a myriad of ways. This course examines various manifestations of antisemitism in law and jurisprudence, from 19th century Europe to early 20th century America to Nazi Germany and the Stalinist U.S.S.R. to the present. Among the topics covered are blood libel trials, the Dreyfus affair in France, the Leo Frank trial in Georgia, the defamation case against Henry Ford, the Nazi Nuremberg laws, the annihilation of European Jews as the core of the crimes against humanity charge at the International Military Tribunal at Nuremberg, and contemporary proceedings charging a hostile anti-Semitic environment at certain U.S. colleges and universities under Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964.#
&LAW 7014 | Advanced Writing: FinTech, Alternative Finance and Digital Assets du Jour&
#Selected research and writing topics drawing from fluid FinTech issues, developments in Alternative Finance, Digital Assets and Digital Engagement Practices (DEPs). Rapidly changing technologies, asset structures and platforms can shape our economy as well as the conduct of market participants. All of these topics are examples, (not exclusive examples) of appropriate material for student research/writing. Upon the professor's approval, students will identify their individual research topics and devote the term to writing a 30-40 page article of a caliber suited for publication in an academic or trade journal. Several students in a forerunner offering of this course had their course papers published in prestigious academic journals.#
&LAW 7022 | Advanced Topics in Property Theory&
#This seminar will explore what the idea of property means, and its usefulness in resolving issues of intense social conflict.  Seminar sessions will encourage student participation, with the instructor guiding that discussion.#
&LAW 7030 | Biblical Law and Its Modern Interpreters&
#No description available.#
&LAW 7034 | First Amendment Law Clinic III&
#A continuation of the First Amendment Clinic for advanced students, with emphasis on leadership roles and advanced litigation skills.#
&LAW 7035 | First Amendment Law Clinic IV&
#No description available.#
&LAW 7077 | Critical Evaluation of Legal Information&
#No description available.#
&LAW 7115 | Race and Technology Colloquium&
#No description available.#
&LAW 7130 | The Constitution in Times of War and Conflict&
#The United States Constitution was rooted in a governmental concept unique to the eighteenth century and unique to today- the separation of powers. This concept was intended by the Framers to limit, if not eliminate, centralized power in any one branch, which they regarded as a breeding ground for tyranny and as repugnant to liberty. The first Congress enacted, after ratification, 10 Amendments to the Constitution (The Bill of Rights) guaranteeing individual rights and liberties and protection thereof by due process of law. Throughout the course of this country's history there have been periods of war and conflict, foreign and domestic, when the system of checks and balances, integral to the separable triad, may have malfunctioned as a bullwork. As well, during these times, there have been putative governmental deprivations of liberties safeguarded by the Bill of Rights. Would the Framers and members of the first Congress have understood that certain governmental measures, inconsistent with the intended limitations of governmental power and intrusions on liberty, were sometimes required? Should we accept these inconsistencies and deprivations? The course will include a study of executive actions, legislation, and Supreme Court decisions during times of war and conflict when the "law of the land" has arguably "fallen silent."#
&LAW 7157 | Comparative Middle Eastern Law: Contemporary Issues&
#This course addresses students to key issues in Middle East legal systems and politics today. It introduces the current Middle East by drawing upon cutting-edge scholarships written from a diversity of disciplinary views. These include history, law, political science, as well as studies of religion, gender, mass media, sexuality, human rights, and urban life. It will emphasize the main tendencies and movements in modern Arabian World history. It will analyze both groundwork (basics) in Middle Eastern research and a common sense of modern directions and tracks in the field. It examines the people, traditions, society and politics of the area and the role that religion, gender, culture have played in designing and influencing contemporary issues. It discusses the fundamental internal and external performers in the region; peace and conflict (Israel/Palestine); the geo-strategic significance of the region; political economy matters; political transformation and development; the problem of identities in the Middle East and legal philosophies around this; family law issues (inheritance); the politics of religion (appearance of political Islam); Arab constitutionalism, September 11 and the fall-out in the region from the US-led "war on terrorism," the "Arab Spring," and the unfolding uprisings in the Arab World.  Also, this course will introduce the field of Islamic law.#
&LAW 7162 | Contemporary American Jury&
#This course evaluates claims about the benefits and drawbacks of the contemporary American jury. Drawing on the work of legal scholars and social scientists, we will explore a range of topics relating to criminal and civil juries, including: jury selection; the use of jury consultants; juror perceptions of attorneys, evidence, and experts; individual and group decision making processes; jury instructions; jury deliberations; damage awards; juries in death penalty cases; and jury reform. By studying legal and empirical scholarship about the jury, and by writing their own research papers about a jury topic, seminar participants should develop insights into jury trial functioning and policy debates over the jury's role.#
&LAW 7189 | Current Issues in Collective Bargaining&
#This advanced level mini-course examines several key issues in today's collective bargaining between US private sector employers and unions. Through extensive pre-class readings and podcasts, and during four 3 hour classes, we will trace key developments that have set the table for today's bargaining environment, eg., the deindustrialization of the American economy, the decline of union workforce density, and the rise of defensive collective bargaining; examine resultant wage stagnation and troubled health care and defined benefit pension plans; investigate the effects and intersection of employment law and legislation on collective bargaining and dispute resolution; and consider the emerging arena of unionization in higher education.#
&LAW 7230 | Faculty at Home Seminar&
#No description available.#
&LAW 7233 | Faculty At Home Seminar: Beyond English: Law, Lawyering, and Language Difference&
#No description available.#
&LAW 7234 | Faculty At Home Seminar: The Laws of Surfing: Some Theoretical Puzzles&
#Legal theory has long puzzled over a series of dilemmas regarding the regulation of social life. For example: Can effective regulation occur outside of the structures of the state and its legal system? How are social rules created, interpreted and enforced? This FAH seminar uses surfing as an excuse for discussing such issues. Surfing has a long set of conventional rules regarding behavior in the water. Who has priority to ride a wave? Are there limits to using the technicalities of such positional rules to gain priority? How are such rules enforced both in competition and in the water? The seminar will address such surfing questions by reading and discussing a series of classic texts ranging from Moby Dick on "Fast-Fish and Loose-Fish" to Bob Ellickson's work on the cattle ranchers of Shasta County, California.#
&LAW 7236 | Faculty At Home Seminar: History of Legal Systems&
#No description available.#
&LAW 7248 | Faculty At Home Seminar: The 2024 Election and the Administrative State&
#No description available.#
&LAW 7252 | Faculty At Home Seminar: Science Fiction and Law&
#What is the law's relationship to biotechnology and bioengineering? How have advances in science impacted legal definitions of "personhood," "property," "rights," and other core attributes of human-ness, and how has the law responded to these developments, especially in the midst of global climate change? This seminar will examine a series of science fiction texts in order to wrestle with such questions. Our materials will include novels (Asimov's Caves of Steel, Octavia Butler's Kindred) and films and television serials (Bladerunner), which we'll analyze alongside excerpts from specific legal decisions (Roe v Wade, Moore v UCLA).#
&LAW 7273 | Form and Substance in Corporate Law and Capital Markets Regulation&
#No description available.#
&LAW 7275 | Faculty At Home Seminar: Laws of Nature: Touring the Legal Structures of Ithaca’s Environment&
#No description available.#
&LAW 7288 | Insanity&
#This seminar explores the law of insanity in depth. After a preliminary discussion about abolishing the defense altogether, we will study: insanity before M'Naghten, the rule set forth in M'Naghten, the irresistible impulse test, and the product test. We then look at two academic proposals: according to one, insanity is a form of profound irrationality; according to the other, insanity is a lost sense of agency. We end with a look at psychopathy.#
&LAW 7321 | International Criminal Law&
#This seminar examines the questions surrounding international criminal law as a separate discipline and the sources of and basic principles underlying the subject. Particular attention will be paid to the question of jurisdiction over international crimes. It will consider international crimes such as aggression; war crimes, crimes against humanity, terrorism, and torture. It will also consider the treatment of past human rights violations in post conflict situations. It will further consider procedural aspects of international criminal law and the forums that deal with international crimes. In that context, it will look at the structure, jurisdiction and jurisprudence of Truth Commissions; the International Criminal Court (The Rome Statute); the former Yugoslavia Tribunal; Rwanda Tribunal and mixed tribunals such as Cambodia Tribunal and Sierra Leone Tribunal. The format will be class discussions of assigned readings. Final assessment in the course will be based on participation in class discussions and a written paper on a subject falling within the themes of the seminar. Paper topics must be submitted to the instructor for review not later than the third week of class. Each student is expected to give a presentation based on his or her paper to the class.#
&LAW 7374 | Judicial Opinion Writing&
#No description available.#
&LAW 7385 | Advanced Administrative Law: The Federal Sentencing Bureaucracy&
#No description available.#
&LAW 7587 | Shareholder Activism: Traditional Campaigns and Environmental, Social and Governance Concerns&
#No description available.#
&LAW 7590 | Mortgage and Asset Securitization&
#This course analyzes the structure of mortgage- and other asset-backed securities, as well as the participants in their creation, distribution, trading and regulation. The financial and legal characteristics of the underlying assets will be considered, including a basic understanding of the asset cash flows, and factors that vary those flows. Securities and Tax Law aspects of the creation, marketing and trading of these securities will be reviewed, with particular emphasis on the REMIC structure. There will be review of the secondary markets, including Government-sponsored Enterprises and "Private Label" securities issuers; the credit rating agencies; and private mortgage insurers. Lastly, there will be consideration of the laws currently governing the GSEs and what future changes they and the broader market might anticipate for those laws.#
&LAW 7591 | Mergers and Acquisitions: A Module Based Approach&
#No description available.#
&LAW 7597 | Cybersecurity Law and Strategy&
#No description available.#
&LAW 7652 | Education Law Practicum&
#This course has two components—a seminar component and casework. The Education Law Practicum offers students the opportunity to engage in experiential learning while providing legal services to individual organizations that provide educational programming. Students will learn fundamental practical skills necessary to represent clients in the educational and non-profit sector.#
&LAW 7654 | Education Law Practicum II&
#No description available.#
&LAW 7688 | Research Seminar: The Law of Software&
#No description available.#
&LAW 7695 | Restrictive Employment Covenants&
#About one in five American workers has contractually promised, often on a take it or leave it basis, not to work for a competitor after leaving their job.  These covenants not to compete cover CEOs and Jimmy John's sandwich artists. The Uniform Law Commissioners has just appointed a study committee to determine whether to recommend drafting a Uniform Law for the 50 states to adopt regulating restrictive employment covenants. This seminar will explore the many issues involved in do-not-compete covenants and related restrictive covenants not to solicit customers, not to divulge secrets, and among employers not to poach workers. The focal point will be our attempt to draft a uniform law.#
&LAW 7701 | Trauma Informed Lawyering&
#No description available.#
&LAW 7710 | Research Seminar: Content Moderation and Platform Regulation&
#No description available.#
&LAW 7743 | Seminar in Ethics and Value Policy&
#No description available.#
&LAW 7745 | Seminar on Mergers and Acquisitions&
#The focus of this course is developing the lawyering skills required by an attorney advising a client who is selling or acquiring a business. Individual drafting exercises, as well as strategy discussions and negotiations by student teams acting as counsel to the buyer or seller, will be interspersed with lectures on the business acquisition process and analysis of selected publicly available documentation of actual acquisition transactions. The typical chronology of an acquisition: negotiation by the buyer and the seller of the basic terms of the deal including selection of structure (sale of stock or assets; merger); drafting and negotiation of a term sheet or letter of intent; due diligence investigation; drafting and negotiation of the definitive acquisition agreement; handling of problems encountered between the execution of the agreement and the closing of the acquisition; and the closing.#
&LAW 7748 | Selected Topics on Business Bankruptcy&
#No description available.#
&LAW 7749 | Psychology for Practicing Transactional Lawyers&
#During the years of my practice as a transactional attorney, I have looked back at my law school years and wished that I took a class of practical psychology because practicing as a lawyer means working with people. Typical transactional lawyers spend most of their time working with clients, other lawyers and colleagues. Effective lawyering requires a good understanding of people and how they interact. It is very helpful for an attorney to consider how people think, feel and behave. Therefore, in my view, most lawyers could benefit greatly from knowledge of practical psychology. This course is designed to consider practical psychology as it applies to the transactional law practice. We will also consider insights psychology provides for attorney success, and, dare we say, happiness and balance.#
&LAW 7760 | Movement Lawyering Clinic I&
#This course gives students the opportunity to engage in the movement lawyering. The course hasboth a classroom component and a community component. This course gives students the opportunity to engage in the movement lawyering. The course has both a classroom component and a community component.#
&LAW 7762 | Movement Lawyering Clinic II&
#This course gives students the opportunity to engage in the movement lawyering. The course has both a classroom component and a community component. Clinic participants will gain first hand experience, knowledge, and skills in how to work with organizers to use the law to support and defend justice movements. Students will work with lawyers, community organizations, and activists to understand strategies and tactics of movement legal work. They will follow the lead of movement participants and community members to build power and assist in creating lasting change.#
&LAW 7763 | Movement Lawyering Clinic III&
#This course gives students the opportunity to engage in the movement lawyering. The course has both a classroom component and a community component. Clinic participants will gain first hand experience, knowledge, and skills in how to work with organizers to use the law to support and defend justice movements. Students will work with lawyers, community organizations, and activists to understand strategies and tactics of movement legal work. They will follow the lead of movement participants and community members to build power and assist in creating lasting change.#
&LAW 7766 | Taxation of Mergers and Acquisitions&
#This course will examine the federal income taxation of M&A transactions and prepare students for the practical aspects of transactional tax work in the context of mergers and acquisitions.   We will explore selected tax issues that drive deal structure in both public and private M&A transactions and pay special attention to tax considerations relevant to private equity fund acquisitions.  We will also cover topics of current political relevance that relate to M&A taxation.  Students will learn to draft and negotiate tax provisions in M&A documents and conduct tax research in the manner of a transactional tax attorney.  The content of this course will be useful not only to students interested in transactional tax work but also to those who will pursue a more general corporate practice in which they will encounter significant tax issues.#
&LAW 7767 | Movement Lawyering Clinic IV&
#This course gives students the opportunity to engage in the movement lawyering. The course has both a classroom component and a community component. Clinic participants will gain first hand experience, knowledge, and skills in how to work with organizers to use the law to support and defend justice movements. Students will work with lawyers, community organizations, and activists to understand strategies and tactics of movement legal work. They will follow the lead of movement participants and community members to build power and assist in creating lasting change.#
&LAW 7783 | Topics in Intellectual Property&
#Sizable disagreement and controversy surround many areas of intellectual property. This seminar explores these disputes. By surveying the academic literature the seminar aims to introduce, understand, and ultimately critique the arguments being made for and against various aspects of intellectual property.#
&LAW 7801 | Asylum and Convention Against Torture Appellate Clinic&
#Students will learn asylum, Convention Against Torture, and immigration law in class lectures, readings, and while representing clients. Most students will represent clients on appeal before the Board of Immigration Appeals, although the Clinic does accept federal petitions for review and cases before asylum officers from time to time. Students will also learn advanced legal writing techniques, including appellate strategies, persuasive storytelling, the use of expert reports, and effective argument within complex legal frameworks. Students will work in teams to complete all tasks necessary to zealously represent their client, including drafting an appellate brief, affidavits, and motions; maintaining client contact; and locating expert and other witnesses. In addition, students will develop litigation skills such as advanced legal research, case theory development, factual development and analysis (including interviewing, transcript review, and international human rights research), collaboration, cultural competency, and self-evaluation. Students will learn to overcome the unique challenges attorneys face when representing clients from diverse economic and cultural backgrounds, as well as clients who are incarcerated. The instructors will consider the following factors (in no particular order) when admitting students: commitment to public interest or immigration law work, legal writing and research ability, and collegiality. For more information about the Clinic, visit the clinic website: http://www.lawschool.cornell.edu/academics/clinicalprogram/Asylum-Clinic/index.cfm#
&LAW 7811 | Capital Punishment Clinic I&
#Death penalty litigation: investigation and the preparation of petitions and briefs. Case selection and student assignments depend on both pedagogical factors and litigation needs of clinic clients. Students read the trial and lower court record and research legal issues. Some students are involved in investigation, while others primarily assist in the preparation of briefs, petitions and other case documents. No student will be required to participate in investigation. All students are included in discussions regarding the necessary investigation, research, and strategy for the cases.#
&LAW 7814 | Advanced Transnational Disputes Clinic&
#In this course, students learn to use strategic litigation to influence the progressive development of the law. Clinic clients and partners include those appearing before international investor-state arbitral tribunals, national courts,such as U.S. federal courts, and other fora. Students learn key skills through acting as counsel for parties as well as for amici curiae in disputes that implicate the protection of fundamental rights. The course includes a seminar component as well as extensive, supervised work as part of a case team.#
&LAW 7815 | Capital Punishment Clinic II&
#Death penalty litigation: investigation and the preparation of petitions, memoranda, and briefs. This course is taught as a clinic. Two or possibly three capital cases are worked on by students. Case selection depends on both pedagogical factors and litigation needs of the inmates. Students read the record and research legal issues. Some students are involved in investigation, while others assist in the preparation of papers. All students are included in discussions regarding the necessary investigation, research, and strategy for the cases.#
&LAW 7817 | Child Advocacy Practicum&
#Each student in the Child Advocacy Clinic is assigned to a local attorney who has been appointed to represent children (and in some cases, parents) in Family Court in Tompkins County or surrounding areas. The attorneys and students work together on all aspects of representation, including home visits, pre-trial conferences, negotiation sessions, client and parent interviews, litigation documents, and hearings. The student may also help the attorney with appellate work. A classroom component of the Clinic allows students to learn the substantive law of Family Court and to share their insights and experiences with one another.#
&LAW 7818 | Child Advocacy Practicum II&
#No description available.#
&LAW 7839 | Entrepreneurship Clinic I&
#The Entrepreneurship Clinic provides students who are interested in transactional work with an opportunity to learn about the legal issues specific to starting and running a business venture. Weekly classes, which may include guest speakers, will introduce students to the common legal questions that entrepreneurs face, including how to choose and form a business entity, structure the ownership of the business, contract with employees and independent contractors, protect intellectual property, and set up the venture for successful financing. Building on the concepts learned in class, student teams will represent local entrepreneurs and start-up businesses on a variety of transactional matters. The client work will introduce students to fundamental transactional skills, ranging from legal research to drafting term sheets and contracts.#
&LAW 7840 | Estate Planning Practicum&
#The newest addition to Cornell Law School's Clinical Programs, the Estate Planning Clinic aims to provide students with the unique opportunity of enriching and furthering their legal awareness and experience beyond the classroom environment.Participants will gain valuable, practical experience by assisting people from the local community with some of their more basic estate planning needs, thereby applying their theoretical knowledge to real-world scenarios. The students' best skills will be put to practice while they work towards creating an atmosphere of trust and comfort for their clients and learning the essentials of establishing solid attorney-client relationships. Specifically, students will be working in pairs under supervision of faculty to prepare an actual estate plan for the client which includes a last will and testament, a living will, a health care proxy and a power of attorney along with the statutory major gifts rider (if applicable). Students will take part in the entire estate planning process from the initial informational intake meeting, to the preparation of the client's estate planning documents, to discussing the drafts with the clients along with addressing their comments and changes and to preparing and assisting with the execution of the client's estate planning documents. To further enhance the learning experience, lectures will be provided on the fundamentals of estate planning from establishing a healthy attorney-client relationship, drafting considerations for the client's last will and testament, basic related estate and income tax issues, ethical issues and the administration of the client's estate upon death. The classroom component of the course ensures that students understand not only the legal issues but also the practical and human issues involved in a trusts and estates practice.#
&LAW 7841 | 1L Immigration Law and Advocacy Clinic&
#This course provides students the unique opportunity to engage in direct services with clients in their first year of law school. Students will learn substantive immigration law and develop practical skills including client interviewing, persuasive writing, community-based lawyering, and case management by representing clients in immigration applications. Further, students will engage in community advocacy through presentations on campus and in the community.#
&LAW 7845 | Advanced Entrepreneurship Law Clinic&
#Students will continue to represent local entrepreneurs and start-up businesses on a variety of transactional matters. Students may also engage in additional related projects, such as preparing and delivering workshops to the local business community on relevant topics.#
&LAW 7851 | Externship&
#This course allows students, as externs to work full time at approved placement sites (most sites are non-profit organizations or governmental agencies) during the fall or spring semester of their third year or the spring semester of their second year.  The course purpose is to provide a bridge between the study of law and its practice. The student must be supervised/mentored by an attorney and engage in meaningful and "attorney-like" work at the placement which furthers the student's education and career goals. In addition to work responsibilities for the placement, the extern will create a Learning Agenda, prepare weekly Journal entries, engage in a regular electronic Discussion Board with other externs and the instructor, possibly host the faculty director for a site visit, and do a written Description of Placement.#
&LAW 7854 | Tenants Advocacy Practicum I&
#In this course, students will provide information, legal advice, and representation to tenants. The student work in this practicum will directly address the needs of local residents financially impacted by the current pandemic. Students will work on cases for tenants facing a wide variety of housing issues (including but not limited to habitability issues, payment disputes, lease violations, unlawful lockouts, and small claims actions) or seeking eviction defense and homelessness prevention.#
&LAW 7857 | Farmworker Legal Assistance Clinic I&
#Permission of instructor required. Students who wish to apply to the clinic should submit a resume, transcript, and short statement of interest (no more than two pages) to Prof. Lyon. For more information about the clinic, email Prof. Lyon (beth.lyon@cornell.edu) and schedule a meeting. This course requires off premises travel to meet with clients and participate in hearings. Employment on a farm is one of the worlds' most difficult and dangerous occupations. Farmworkers experience geographic, linguistic, and cultural isolation, separation from family, immigration insecurity reinforced by policing practices, workplace sexual violence, and exclusion from protective employment laws. Working with the new clinic's community partners, Farmworker Legal Assistance Clinic I student attorneys will handle immigration and employment matters on behalf of farmworkers in the region, work that will typically involve negotiation and often require litigation. Students will also work in brief advice and referral outreach sessions in farmworker communities. Clinic participants may also have the opportunity to work on research and writing projects with civil rights, environmental protection, and farmworker rights organizations. Farmworker Clinic students will participate in a lawyering seminar and work with a clinic partner on their assigned cases. The lawyering seminar will focus on skills students need for effective client representation. Students will develop key lawyering skills, including interviewing, counseling, fact investigation, drafting, negotiation, language accessible practice, and, in some cases, trial advocacy.#
&LAW 7858 | Farmworker Legal Assistance Clinic II&
#Students collaborate with farmworkers, farmworker families, and partner organizations to use the law in service of their clients' goals. Students who have completed the first semester of any clinical course can seek the instructors' permission to enroll in Farmworker Clinic II, for 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 or 6 credits, depending on the number of projects undertaken. Students in Farmworker Clinic II work on individual cases for clients and/or non-litigation advocacy projects. They attend roughly four one-hour seminar class "case rounds" meetings during the semester, usually at the same time that Farmworker Clinic I meets. Other multi-clinic classes and trainings will be made available as well.#
&LAW 7859 | Farmworker Legal Assistance Clinic III&
#Students collaborate with farmworkers, farmworker families, and partner organizations to use the law in service of their clients' goals. Students who have completed the first semester of any clinical course can seek the instructors' permission to enroll in Farmworker Clinic III, for 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 or 6 credits, depending on the number of projects undertaken. Students in Farmworker Clinic II work on individual cases for clients and/or non-litigation advocacy projects. They attend roughly four one-hour seminar class "case rounds" meetings during the semester, usually at the same time that Farmworker Clinic I meets. Other multi-clinic classes and trainings will be made available as well.#
&LAW 7860 | International Human Rights: Litigation and Advocacy II&
#In this clinical course, students will work on projects that will expose them to diverse forms of human rights advocacy. The clinic is litigation-oriented, although clinic students may have the opportunity to engage in fact-finding and research regarding human rights violations abroad. A current sampling of projects includes: (1) Advocacy on behalf of prisoners in Tanzania and Malawi whose legal rights have been violated.  Our work in Malawi has already resulted in the release of 250 prisoners, and a number of clinic students have traveled to both countries in connection with this project; (2) Representation of a Mexican national sentenced to death in the state of Ohio, including litigation of treaty violations in his case; and (3) Advocacy before the United Nations regarding human rights violations committed by Israel in the Occupied Syrian Golan.#
&LAW 7862 | Externship - Pro Bono Scholars Program&
#The Externship - Pro Bono Scholars Program course allows third year students in their last semester to take the NY Bar Examination in February and then earn their last 12 credits hours working full time from the end of February through the end of May as externs at approved placement sites doing exclusively pro bono legal services for indigent clients. The course purpose is to provide a bridge between the study of law and its practice, as well as serving low income clients who might otherwise not receive legal services. A written application for the course must be submitted to the instructor and approved during the early fall of the student's third year. The student must be supervised/mentored by an attorney and engage in meaningful and "attorney-like" work at the placement.  The experience must further the student's education and career goals.  In addition to his or her work responsibilities for the placement and indigent clients, the extern will create a Learning Agenda, prepare weekly Journal entries, engage in a regular electronic Discussion Board with other externs and the instructor, host the instructor for a site visit, and do a written Description of Placement.#
&LAW 7864 | Farmworker Legal Assistance Clinic IV&
#Students collaborate with farmworkers, farmworker families, and partner organizations to use the law in service of their clients' goals. Students who have completed the first semester of any clinical course can seek the instructors' permission to enroll in Farmworker Clinic IV, for 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 or 6 credits, depending on the number of projects undertaken. Students in Farmworker Clinic II work on individual cases for clients and/or non-litigation advocacy projects. They attend roughly four one-hour seminar class "case rounds" meetings during the semester, usually at the same time that Farmworker Clinic I meets. Other multi-clinic classes and trainings will be made available as well.#
&LAW 7867 | First Amendment Law Clinic&
#This will be the first semester of the newly-created First Amendment Clinic. Students will engage in litigation and policy analysis supporting the interests of news outlets, journalists, researchers, and other newsgatherers in aid of their critical function of reporting and communicating important news and information, as well as human rights advocates, political activists, and other individuals targeted based on their expression. The Clinic's cases involve the intersection of Freedom of Information laws or the First Amendment with several substantive areas of law related to the promotion of social justice: immigration, criminal justice, scientific integrity, democratic institutions and norms, human rights, journalism, and internet speech. Students will have the opportunity to vet potential cases, conduct offensive and defensive legal research, write party and amicus briefs, and, if they continue in the clinic next year, may have the possibility of conducting oral argument. The First Amendment Clinic is committed to teamwork and developing student's collaborative skills, and students will have the opportunity to work on these skills in tandem with members of other clinics with which we are co-counseling. In addition, in the clinic seminar, practitioners in the field will speak to the class to provide additional practical insight to students. Finally, students will have the option to visit a newsroom as part of the clinic's "field trip" toward the end of the semester. Students who sign up for the clinic will be required to participate in a "bootcamp" to take place the weekend after the first week of classes. To apply, please submit a resume, statement of interest, short writing sample, and a transcript.#
&LAW 7868 | First Amendment Law Clinic II&
#A continuation of the First Amendment Clinic for advanced students, with emphasis on leadership roles and advanced litigation skills.#
&LAW 7870 | Juvenile Justice Clinic&
#No description available.#
&LAW 7873 | Juvenile Justice Clinic II&
#No description available.#
&LAW 7879 | International Human Rights: Litigation and Advocacy IV&
#In this clinical course, students will work on projects that will expose them to diverse forms of human rights advocacy. The clinic is litigation-oriented, although clinic students may have the opportunity to engage in fact-finding and research regarding human rights violations abroad.#
&LAW 7891 | Tenants Advocacy Practicum II&
#In this course, students will continue to provide information, legal advice, and representation to tenants. Students will work on cases for tenants facing a wide variety of housing issues (including but not limited to habitability issues, payment disputes, lease violations, unlawful lockouts, and small claims actions) or seeking eviction defense and homelessness prevention.#
&LAW 7892 | Tenants Advocacy Practicum III&
#In this course, students will continue to provide information, legal advice, and representation to tenants. Students will work on cases for tenants facing a wide variety of housing issues (including but not limited to habitability issues, payment disputes, lease violations, unlawful lockouts, and small claims actions) or seeking eviction defense and homelessness prevention. Students will draft legal memoranda and may prepare pleadings for town, village, and city court cases. Students may have the opportunity to appear (likely virtually) in court.#
&LAW 7893 | Tenants Advocacy Practicum IV&
#In this course, students will continue to provide information, legal advice, and representation to tenants. Students will work on cases for tenants facing a wide variety of housing issues (including but not limited to habitability issues, payment disputes, lease violations, unlawful lockouts, and small claims actions) or seeking eviction defense and homelessness prevention. Students will draft legal memoranda and may prepare pleadings for town, village, and city court cases. Students may have the opportunity to appear (likely virtually) in court. The students may also circulate tenants' rights information to the community in conjunction with the Ithaca Tenants Union.#
&LAW 7905 | Advocacy for LGBT Communities Practicum&
#Prerequisite: completion of 2 full semesters of law study at a U.S. law school. Permission of the instructor.  Limited enrollment.  12 to 16 hours of work per week. This course has two components. First, a weekly seminar that covers a survey of different legal topics affecting lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) individuals and communities. Topics include relationship recognition, parentage, custody, asylum, employment discrimination, and more. This seminar generally takes place at Cornell Law School. Second, students will spend, on average, 8 hours per week doing client work and case rounds in Syracuse at the offices of the Volunteer Lawyers Project of Onondaga County. Students will work on a variety of legal cases and advocacy projects that advance or defend the rights of lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) individuals and communities.  Students will work on developing fundamental lawyering skills such as interviewing, client counseling, and drafting of court forms.  Students will also have the opportunity to engage in public education, legal research and other advocacy.  Students must be able to arrange for their own travel to and from Syracuse on a weekly basis. Students are requested to submit a resume, transcript and letter of interest when applying.#
&LAW 7906 | Advocacy for LGBT Communities Practicum II&
#Prerequisite: Completion of LGBT Practicum I. Completion of 2 full semesters of law study at a U.S. law school. Permission of the instructor.  Limited enrollment.  Class may be taken for 2 or 3 credits; 6 to 10 hours of work per week. Students will continue the client work portion of the Practicum I.  Students will work with instructor to identify number of hours worked in Syracuse versus remotely. Students will attend on average 1 hour of class per week for case rounds and for new subject material not covered during their time in Practicum I.#
&LAW 7915 | Gender Justice Clinic II&
#Clinic students contribute to efforts to address gender-based violence and discrimination by representing people in a variety of legal matters and undertaking advocacy projects in collaboration with community partners. Students will gain experience in legal advocacy on gender justice issues and develop lawyering and leadership skills. Students will participate in regular weekly team meetings and attend occasional seminars of the full Gender Justice Clinic.#
&LAW 7917 | Gender Justice Clinic IV&
#Clinic students contribute to efforts to address gender-based violence and discrimination by representing people in a variety of legal matters and undertaking advocacy projects in collaboration with community partners. Students will gain experience in legal advocacy on gender justice issues and develop lawyering and leadership skills.#
&LAW 7925 | New York Attorney General Practicum I&
#The New York State Attorney General offers a clinic in which law students work 12-15 hours per week in the Attorney General's Syracuse Regional Office and attend a weekly class at Cornell. Under the supervision of an Assistant Attorney General, students perform legal research, writing, analysis, draft original legal documents and provide trial support. Students will have an opportunity to attend hearings, trials, court arguments, and pre-trial proceedings. Students will acquire litigation skills as well as specialized knowledge of public advocacy litigation. The class will focus on legal and ethical issues seen in litigation and review student experiences working in the Attorney General's office. Each week there will be a different subject area of Attorney General practice discussed or there will be a guest speaker. Topics include medical malpractice, defective highway design, 1983 civil rights actions in Federal Court, petitions in State Court seeking to overturn state actions, prisoner claims public advocacy litigation. Guest speakers will be attorneys serving in various capacities in State or Federal government and often include a judge or court attorney. There will also be a pro bono opportunity to accompany an attorney to a volunteer legal services clinics operated by the Onondaga County Bar Association.#
&LAW 7927 | Appellate Criminal Defense Clinic&
#In this one-semester clinical course, students will take on the professional responsibilities of handling a criminal appeal in New York State. Students will work in pairs to review the full appellate record, research and select the most salient appealable issues, and draft the opening appellate brief on behalf of an indigent client convicted of a felony in Manhattan or the Bronx. Throughout the process, students will collaborate with their incarcerated client.#
&LAW 7928 | Advanced Appellate Criminal Defense Clinic&
#No description available.#
&LAW 7938 | Advanced Civil Rights and Civil Liberties Clinic&
#For students interested in returning to the Civil Rights and Civil Liberties Clinic (or students who have enrolled in another public law-oriented clinic), an opportunity to develop advanced litigation and policy advocacy skills on topics relating to First Amendment law and its intersections with other doctrinal areas.#
&LAW 7945 | Federal Indian Law Practicum I&
#This ongoing practicum course represents tribes and tribal members in matters involving federal Indian law, large or small, and regardless of forum or the location of the tribe. One current case involves pursuing a claim against the Department of the Interior under The Judgment Funds Act on behalf of disenrolled members of the Saginaw Chippewa Indian Tribe of Michigan. Student work on that matter includes research and document preparation related to filing an appeal of a decision of the Assistant Secretary of Indian Affairs in federal court, while concurrently developing a broad-based knowledge of a voluminous historical and administrative record, which includes expert reports, research memoranda, client declarations and interview transcripts.#
&LAW 7946 | Federal Indian Law Practicum II&
#This ongoing clinical course is pursuing a claim against the Department of the Interior under The Judgment Funds Act on behalf of disenrolled members of the Saginaw Chippewa tribe. We have filed a complaint asking the Secretary to perform a non-discretionary action to re-enroll our clients. Because the tribe is not a necessary party we have avoided issues of sovereign immunity, but expect that it may be raised in an attempt to join the tribe. The Department has filed a motion to dismiss and we responded and are awaiting judgment. We will continue to develop strategies that will permit us to go forward regardless of the decision. Student work will entail designing an administrative appeal and preparing documents for a motion for summary judgment. Students will continue gathering and preparing evidence as well as preparing memoranda on the various tactics. The voluminous historical record remains to be fully cataloged and exhibits for the client declarations also remain to be prepared.#
&LAW 7949 | Federal Indian Law Practicum III&
#This ongoing practicum course represents tribes and tribal members in matters involving federal Indian law, large or small, and regardless of forum or the location of the tribe. One current case involves pursuing a claim against the Department of the Interior under The Judgment Funds Act on behalf of disenrolled members of the Saginaw Chippewa Indian Tribe of Michigan. Student work on that matter includes research and document preparation related to ongoing federal court litigation, while concurrently developing a broad-based knowledge of a voluminous historical and administrative record, which includes expert reports, research memoranda, client declarations and interview transcripts.#
&LAW 7950 | Federal Indian Law Practicum IV&
#This ongoing practicum course represents tribes and tribal members in matters involving federal Indian law, large or small, regardless of forum or the location of the tribe. One current case involves pursuing a claim against the Department of the Interior under The Judgment Funds Act on behalf of disenrolled members of the Saginaw Chippewa Indian Tribe of Michigan. Student work on that matter includes research and document preparation related to ongoing federal court litigation, while concurrently developing a broad-based knowledge of a voluminous historical and administrative record, which includes expert reports, research memoranda, client declarations and interview transcripts. LAW 7946, LAW 7949, and LAW 7950 are advanced courses for students who have completed previous semesters in the practicum.#
&LAW 7953 | Securities Law Clinic I&
#The course will focus on fundamental investigatory and advocacy skills applicable to representation of public investors in disputes subject to arbitration at the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (f/k/a National Association of Securities Dealers), with particular attention to the elderly and to small investors. Substantive legal topics will include the scope and nature of binding arbitration under the Federal Arbitration Act and New York law, and the legal and regulatory remedies available to defrauded investors. Coursework will include training in skills such as interviewing potential clients, evaluating potential claims, preparing pleadings, conducting discovery, representing clients at hearings and negotiating settlements. Class work will include presentations by nationally-recognized experts on topics applicable to evaluation of securities accounts, trading, and products. Students will have the opportunity under faculty supervision to represent investors, to provide public education to community groups as to investment frauds, to draft position statements to regulatory authorities, and/or to participate in preparing amicus briefs, in support of public investors.#
&LAW 7954 | Securities Law Clinic II&
#The course will focus on fundamental investigatory and advocacy skills applicable to representation of public investors in disputes subject to arbitration at the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (f/k/a National Association of Securities Dealers), with particular attention to the elderly and to small investors. Substantive legal topics will include the scope and nature of binding arbitration under the Federal Arbitration Act and New York law, and the legal and regulatory remedies available to defrauded investors. Coursework will include training in skills such as interviewing potential clients, evaluating potential claims, preparing pleadings, conducting discovery, representing clients at hearings and negotiating settlements. Class work will include presentations by nationally-recognized experts on topics applicable to evaluation of securities accounts, trading, and products. Students will have the opportunity under faculty supervision to represent investors, to provide public education to community groups as to investment frauds, to draft position statements to regulatory authorities, and/or to participate in preparing amicus briefs, in support of public investors.#
&LAW 7955 | Securities Law Clinic III&
#The course will focus on fundamental investigatory and advocacy skills applicable to representation of public investors in disputes subject to arbitration at the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (f/k/a National Association of Securities Dealers), with particular attention to the elderly and to small investors. Substantive legal topics will include the scope and nature of binding arbitration under the Federal Arbitration Act and New York law, and the legal and regulatory remedies available to defrauded investors. Coursework will include training in skills such as interviewing potential clients, evaluating potential claims, preparing pleadings, conducting discovery, representing clients at hearings and negotiating settlements. Class work will include presentations by nationally-recognized experts on topics applicable to evaluation of securities accounts, trading, and products. Students will have the opportunity under faculty supervision to represent investors, to provide public education to community groups as to investment frauds, to draft position statements to regulatory authorities, and/or to participate in preparing amicus briefs, in support of public investors.#
&LAW 7957 | Clinic Spanish Conversation&
#Spanish is the most frequently spoken non-English language in the United States. According to the Migration Policy Institute, Spanish is the predominant language spoken by limited-English-proficient ("LEP") individuals in this country, with roughly 64 percent (16.2 million) of all LEP individuals speaking Spanish. The legal profession has a responsibility to competently serve all LEP communities, and lawyers with Spanish language-accessible practices are an important resource. To support Spanish learning at the law school, we are offering this ungraded Spanish conversation course for students who are concurrently enrolled in one of the in-house clinics. To apply for the course, submit your resume and a brief statement describing your Spanish language ability. Once clinic registration is final, we will confirm that you have joined one of the in-house clinics and reach out to you regarding next steps, which may include a brief phone call to check your level of Spanish. The course will be taught by a clinical professor and a bilingual law student TA.#
&LAW 7958 | Advanced Spanish Clinic Conversation&
#This course is for students enrolled in a clinic in the spring 2024 semester. The class will focus on verbal and written communication and language comprehension. Please note that this class is not for students looking to learn basic Spanish conversational skills; instead, the course will focus on strengthening legal vocabulary. A minimum level of Spanish comprehension is required to enroll.#
&LAW 7959 | Transnational Disputes Clinic&
#Students in this course learn to use strategic litigation to influence the progressive development of the law. Clinic clients and partners include those appearing before international investor-state arbitral tribunals, national courts, such as U.S. federal courts, and other fora. Students learn key skills through acting as counsel for parties as well as for amici curiae in disputes that implicate the protection of fundamental rights. This course includes a seminar component as well as extensive, supervised work as part of a case team.#
&LAW 7964 | Veterans Law Practicum&
#In the Veterans Law Practicum I, students will provide information, legal advice, and representation to veterans. The student work in this practicum will directly address the gaps in legal representation for veterans seeking access to various veteran-specific benefits programs. Obtaining and accessing benefits can impact the lives of veterans in many ways: by preventing homelessness, improving a veteran's economic security and wellbeing, and providing access to medical care. Students will work on cases to secure service-connected disability compensation, discharge upgrades, overpayment issues, and other related claims. The students will interview veterans and conduct substantive research into the applicable law, including Title 38 Code of Federal Regulations, Uniform Code of Military Justice, and Federal Legislation. Students will draft legal memoranda and may prepare briefings for Veteran District Offices and/or the Board of Veterans Affairs. Students may have the opportunity to appear virtually at hearings. The students may also circulate veterans benefits information to the community in conjunction with the Tompkins County Department of Veterans Services. Students will develop key lawyering skills (including interviewing, client counseling, fact investigation, drafting, and oral advocacy), gain substantive and procedural knowledge of veteran benefits laws and regulations, and engage with the ethical implications of creating an attorney-client relationship. Students are requested to submit a statement of interest.#


$LEAD | Leadership$
&LEAD 1960 | Leadership Training Practicum&
#In LEAD 1960 (Cornell Outdoor Education) students will enhance their COE experience through a deeper exploration of the areas of leadership, teamwork, and personal growth. They will have opportunities for practical leadership experience within a reflective learning framework. Students in this course will go through the training to become a CEP PE Instructor, Outdoor Odyssey Guide or Cornell Team and Leadership Center Facilitator before leading their own Class, Trip or Program.#
&LEAD 3100 | Foundations in Leadership: Skills for Personal and Professional Effectiveness&
#This course frames leadership as a particular way of approaching life, one that is essential to both personal fulfillment and career effectiveness. The course begins with the inner work of a leader's personal development and then explores how leaders work through others to enhance their influence.#
&LEAD 4223 | City as Community Learning Ecosystem&
#Running shoes are not required, yet we are in training for a marathon. In this course we're enhancing our knowledgebase, toolbox, mindset and resilience as we take up a contest unprecedented in human history— inclusive and just sustainability. Part race against the clock, part design challenge and part performance test, Team Humanity needs all of us to be informed, prepared, and in the game. Having teammates to train with nudges us to keep going as we learn with and from partners, communities and action leaders in this grand challenge. We examine five major concepts and explore their mutual generativity as we look for leverage points of system change: just sustainability; lifelong learning; place; learning ecosystems and social competencies for collective leadership and learning.#
&LEAD 4925 | Leadership Minor ePortfolio&
#The purpose of this course is to demonstrate that Leadership Minor students will have met all learning outcomes in the program prior to graduation by documenting relevant in-class and co-curricular activities in their individual ePortfolio. The ePortfolio will be evaluated based on the following elements: a personal profile, leadership philosophy statement, leadership experiences, personal development, examples of how the learning outcomes for the minor have been met through the capstone experience, and reflective writing on the capstone experience. The evaluation and assignment of a grade will be made by the student's advisor using a common rubric. Ideally, students will enroll in this course in their second-to-last semester so any deficiencies can be addressed prior to graduation.#
&LEAD 4970 | Undergraduate Experience in Leadership&
#The capstone leadership experience for the Leadership Minor should be designed with a member of the faculty or staff who will directly supervise the experience, include learning outcomes, and be pre-approved by the director of the minor. The leadership experience can be directed through Cornell athletics, organized campus clubs, the Greek system, Cornell Outdoor Education, the Cornell Public Service Center, the residential system or other similar organization. Every 45 hours outside of the classroom is equivalent to one credit hour.#
&LEAD 5223 | City as Community Learning Ecosystem&
#Running shoes are not required, yet we are in training for a marathon. In this course we're enhancing our knowledgebase, toolbox, mindset and resilience as we take up a contest unprecedented in human history— inclusive and just sustainability. Part race against the clock, part design challenge and part performance test, Team Humanity needs all of us to be informed, prepared, and in the game. Having teammates to train with nudges us to keep going as we learn with and from partners, communities and action leaders in this grand challenge. We examine five major concepts and explore their mutual generativity as we look for leverage points of system change: just sustainability; lifelong learning; place; learning ecosystems and social competencies for collective leadership and learning.#


$LEGAL | Legal Studies$
&LEGAL 5100 | Introduction to the U.S. Legal System&
#This introductory course immerses you in the American legal system and locates it in an inter-connected world. Law is in some ways its own language and "immersion courses" are an effective way to learn a new language. The course provides a framework for thinking about questions like: When should your firm consult an attorney? What does it mean to "think like a lawyer?" What kinds of remedies does the law offer? How do different sources of law--such as state and federal statutes, agency regulations, court decisions, and constitutional limits--interact? Which courts decide which kinds of questions? When should you pursue alternatives to litigation, such as arbitration or mediation?#
&LEGAL 5101 | Working with Business Contracts&
#This course introduces students to the basic principles of contract law with a focus on practical application of those principles. Students who take the course will be able to identify and create enforceable agreements that clearly and thoroughly set forth the rights and obligations of parties, appropriately allocate risk, and avoid unintended consequences. By explaining how lawyers use the tools of contract drafting—representations, warranties, covenants, conditions and indemnities and other typical contract provisions—the course seeks to and de-mystifying legal jargon with the goal of promoting effective collaboration between businesspeople and their legal counsel to achieve their organization's business objectives.#
&LEGAL 5103 | Navigating the Intellectual Property Landscape&
#Intellectual property is increasingly becoming a central feature of the modern economy. Though most are vaguely aware of its general purpose, business familiarity and comfort with this seemingly exotic area remains elusive. Rather than a singular field, intellectual property is best understood as the collection of its constituent parts of trademark, copyright, trade secrecy and patents. Each of these have their distinct realms of application and have their distinct features, benefits and pitfalls. Business decision makers in all industries can no longer afford to remain in the dark about these fields. Non-lawyers increasingly must be conversant with at least the basic contours. The course provides an overview of the fundamental features of trademark, copyright, trade secrecy and patents with an emphasis on their distinct subject matter and their particular strategic benefits and pitfalls.#
&LEGAL 5107 | Employment Law&
#To be an effective manager and employee, you need to know the legal rules governing the workplace—which is employment law. The course begins with the classification of workers as employees, independent contractors, partners, or interns—a topic much in the news these days as firms outsource important parts of their operations. It then covers job security and the uniquely American concept of employment at will, which includes the protections whistleblowers have in the workplace. Privacy rights and antidiscrimination regulations figure prominently in employment law. The course covers intellectual property rights in the workplace and noncompetition agreements and other restrictions when the job ends.#
&LEGAL 5110 | Criminal Liability of Organizations&
#Organizations, together with their officials and employees, work in the shadow of the criminal law. If an employee or official commits a crime, not only might the employee or official be criminally liable, the organization itself might be liable too. This course introduces you to some basic concepts of criminal law, including the grounds upon which individualsand organizations can be held criminally liable, some of the principal federal criminal statutes especially relevant to the organizational setting, the difference between civil and criminal enforcement in areas of overlapping jurisdiction, the legal incentives organizations have to establish ethics and compliance programs, and the role of the organization and the Department of Justice in the conduct of internal investigations.#
&LEGAL 5111 | Business Transactions&
#This course is designed to assist non-lawyers in becoming valuable participants in business transactions. The course seeks to help business professionals understand the legal ramifications of business transactions in order to facilitate those transactions and to anticipate and solve the legal and practical issues that may arise both during the negotiation of business transactions and after they have been completed. The transactions to be discussed include mergers and acquisitions, divestitures, joint ventures, and capital raising transactions. There will also be a brief introduction to private equity and an explanation as to why business professionals should be familiar with it.#
&LEGAL 5115 | Cross-Border Transactions&
#This course will identify and explain some of the key legal issues that arise in cross-border business transactions. The term "cross-border business transactions" is defined broadly; it can range from simple tax planning through foreign subsidiaries, to joint ventures with foreign partners, to making or receiving foreign direct investment. The course will provide an overview of the relevant legal issues (looking at both public law and private law), offer practical solutions for dealing with these issues, and engage students in discussion of the broader policy implications.#
&LEGAL 5202 | Business Ethics SP&
#No description available.#
&LEGAL 7100 | Capstone Project I&
#This substantial written project will involve in depth study of a topic selected by the student together with their capstone advisor. The project can involve applying what students learned in the program to issues specific to their work place.#
&LEGAL 7101 | Capstone Project II&
#This substantial written project will involve in depth study of a topic selected by the student together with their capstone advisor. The project can involve applying what students learned in the program to issues specific to their work place.#


$LGBT | Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual & Transgender Studies$
&LGBT 1940 | A Global History of Love&
#By posing seemingly simple questions such as what is love and who has the right to love, this introductory-level lecture course surveys how love has been experienced and expressed from the pre-modern period to the present. Through case studies of familial and conjugal love in Africa, Asia, the US, Europe, and South and Latin America, the course will examine the debates about and enactment's of what constitutes the appropriate way to show love and affection in different cultures and historical contexts. Among the themes we will explore are questions of sexuality, marriage, kinship, and gender rights. A final unit will examine these themes through modern technologies such as the Internet, scientific advances in medicine, and a growing awareness that who and how we love is anything but simple or universal.#
&LGBT 2290 | Introduction to Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and Transgender Studies&
#This course offers an introduction to central issues, debates, and theories that characterize the field of Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and Transgender (LGBT) Studies. Starting from the assumption that neither "sex" nor "sexuality" is a private experience or category, we will explore some of the ways that these powerfully public and political terms have circulated in social, legal, economic, and cultural spheres. We will also examine how these categories are situated in relation to other formative categories including race, ethnicity, religion, family, marriage, reproduction, the economy, and the state. Using a comparative and intersectional approach, we will read from various disciplines to assess the tools that LGBT studies offers for understanding power and culture in our contemporary world.#
&LGBT 2350 | Literature and Medicine&
#How does literary language depict the experience of physical suffering? Can a poem or a novel palliate pain, illness, even the possibility of death? From darkly comic narratives of black plague to the rise and fall of hysteria to depictions of the AIDS crisis, this course examines literature centered on medical practices from the early modern period through the twentieth century. Why have medical practices changed, and how do writers address their political, social, and ideological implications? Readings will include a broad range of genres, including poetry (Dickinson, Whitman, Keats), fiction (McEwan, Chekhov, Gilman, Kafka, Camus), theater (Kushner), nonfiction prose (Woolf, Freud), and critical theory (Foucault, Scarry, Canguilhem, Sontag).#
&LGBT 3210 | Gender and the Brain&
#Why are boys more likely than girls to be diagnosed with autism, and why are women more likely than men to be diagnosed with depression? Are there different "gay" and "straight" brains? And how does brain science interact with gender and sexuality in popular debate? Reading and discussing the original scientific papers and related critical texts, we will delve into the neuroscience of gender. In this course, we will delve into the neuroscience of gender difference. Reading the original scientific papers and related critical texts, we will ask whether we can find measurable physical differences in male and female brains, and what these differences might be. Do men and women solve spatial puzzles differently, as measured physiologically? Do nonhuman animals display sex-specific behaviors mediated by brain structure, and can we extrapolate these findings to human behavior? Why are boys three times more likely than girls to be diagnosed as autistic, and is there any connection between the predominantly male phenomenon of autism and other stereotypically male mental traits? Are there physical representations of sexual orientation in the brain, and how are these related to gender identity? And how are scientific studies represented and misrepresented in popular debate?#
&LGBT 3990 | Undergraduate Independent Study&
#Individual study program intended for juniors and seniors working on special topics with selected reading or research projects not covered in regularly scheduled courses. Students select a topic in consultation with an LGBT Studies faculty member who has agreed to supervise independent study.#
&LGBT 4701 | Nightlife&
#This course explores nightlife as a temporality that fosters countercultural performances of the self and that serves as a site for the emergence of alternative kinship networks. Focusing on queer communities of color, course participants will be asked to interrogate the ways in which nightlife demonstrates the queer world-making potential that exists beyond the normative 9-5 capitalist model of production. Performances of the everyday, alongside films, texts, and performance art, will be analyzed through a performance studies methodological lens. Through close readings and sustained cultural analysis, students will acquire a critical understanding of the potentiality of spaces, places, and geographies codified as "after hours" in the development of subcultures, alternative sexualities, and emerging performance practices.#
&LGBT 6363 | Queer Marxism&
#Are queer theory and Marxism truly irreconcilable? While queer studies emerged in part as a rejection of Marxism's totalizing approach and Marxists have criticized the queer emphasis on individuals, this seminar explores the potential of bringing the two fields together. We will consider how queer critiques of reproductive futurism, racial capitalism, and homonationalism can transform the legacy of Marxist theory and practice. At the same time, we will examine Marxist notions of totality, reification, and value to reenvision the scope of queer politics. After covering these key Marxist and queer theoretical concepts, the seminar will turn to transnational Marxist debates on gender and sexuality in Weimar Germany and the Soviet Union. We will conclude the seminar with a discussion of new scholarship in the emergent field of queer Marxism and a symposium with presentations by seminar participants.#


$LING | Linguistics$
&LING 1100 | FWS: Language, Thought, and Reality&
#In this course the students learn the skill of writing at the university level. Instructors offer themes for their courses within their own special areas of expertise.#
&LING 1101 | Introduction to Linguistics&
#Overview of the science of language, especially its theoretical underpinnings, methods, and major findings. Areas covered include: the relation between sound and meaning in human languages, social variation in language, language change over time, universals of language, and the mental representation of linguistic knowledge. Students are introduced to a wide variety of language phenomena, drawn not only from languages resembling English, but also from many that appear to be quite unlike English, such as those native to the Americas, Africa, Asia, Australia, and the South Pacific.#
&LING 1109 | English Words: Histories and Mysteries&
#Where do the words we use come from? This course examines the history and structure of the English vocabulary from its distant Indo-European roots to the latest in technical jargon and slang. Topics include formal and semantic change, taboo and euphemism, borrowing, new words from old, "learned" English loans from Greek and Latin, slang, and society.#
&LING 2215 | Psychology of Language&
#Provides an introduction to the psychology of language. The purpose of the course is to introduce students to the scientific study of psycholinguistic phenomena. Covers a broad range of topics from psycholinguistics, including the origin of language, the different components of language (phonology, morphology, syntax, and semantics), processes involved in reading, computational modeling of language processes, the acquisition of language (both under normal and special circumstances), and the brain bases of language.#
&LING 2248 | Native American Languages&
#This course explores the wide variety of languages indigenous to the Americas. There were thousands of languages spoken in the Americas before the arrival of Europeans and hundreds of these languages are still spoken today. We will look at several of these languages in terms of their linguistic structure as well as from social, historical, and political perspectives. No prior linguistic background is required and no previous knowledge of any Native American languages is presumed.#
&LING 3150 | Language and Power&
#In this course, we will explore how language interacts with power: how does language reflect, shape, threaten and reinforce power relations in human society? From childhood through old age, language is an ever-present source of symbolic power. We use it to develop and express our identities, to position ourselves in hierarchies, and to establish group membership and exclusion throughout life. Language shapes ourselves, our families, our social lives, and our institutions. Understanding how people use language can provide a window into hidden aspects of both individuals and the social world.#
&LING 3302 | Introduction to Phonetics and Phonology&
#This course is an introduction to both phonetics (the study of the physical properties of the sounds of human language) and phonology (the organization and patterning of those sounds). The first part of the course focuses on the main areas of phonetics: articulation, acoustics, and perception. Students acquire basic skills, such as production and perception of speech sounds, transcription using the International Phonetic Alphabet, and instrumental analysis of speech. In the second part of the course students are introduced to key concepts in phonology, including rules, representations, and analysis of sound patterns. Throughout the course aspects of the sound systems of a wide range of world languages are studied.#
&LING 3314 | Introduction to Historical Linguistics&
#Survey of the basic mechanisms of linguistic change, with examples from a variety of languages.#
&LING 3316 | Old Norse II&
#Old Norse is a collective term for the earliest North Germanic literary languages: Old Icelandic, Old Norwegian, Old Danish, and Old Swedish. The richly documented Old Icelandic is the center of attention, and the purpose is twofold: the students gain knowledge of an ancient North Germanic language, important from a linguistic point of view, and gain access to the medieval Icelandic (and Scandinavian) literature.  Extensive reading of Old Norse texts, among them selections from some of the major Icelandic family sagas: Njals saga, Grettis saga, and Egils saga, as well as the whole Hrafnkels saga.#
&LING 3325 | Cayuga Language and Culture II&
#A continuation of LING 3324, with further exploration of Cayuga (Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫʼ) language and culture. Language instruction continues in an immersive learning environment with a focus on plants and growing in the spring.#
&LING 3344 | Superlinguistics: Comics, Signs and Other Sequential Images&
#Super-linguistics is a subfield of linguistics that applies techniques used for analyzing natural language to non-linguistic materials. This course uses linguistic tools from semantics, pragmatics and syntax to study sequential images found in comics, films, and children's books. We will also study multimedia, gestures, and static images such as instruction signs, emoji, and paintings. Linguistic topics include anaphora, implicature, tense and aspect, attitudes and embedding, indirect discourse, and dynamic semantics. We introduce linguistic accounts of each of the topics and apply them to pictorial data.#
&LING 3390 | Independent Study in Linguistics&
#Independent study of linguistics topics not covered in regular curriculum for undergrads.#
&LING 4220 | From the Conquest to Caxton: Middle English Language, Literatures, History&
#This seminar will explore the English language and its literatures in its most diverse centuries, which 19th century philologists saw as the "middle" span: after the collapse of Old English language, poetic style, and indigenous power-centers at the Norman Conquest (1066), up to printing (1476), the beginnings of "standard Modern English," claims to an "English literary tradition," and the origins of Atlantic adventurism and imperialism. Between those benchmarks we'll consider multilingualism, English linguistic diversity and changes, social identity, literary forms, and ideas about language and literature, sampling many Middle English works and more fully reading the "Katherine Group," Gawain-poet, Piers Plowman, and Julian of Norwich's Showings.#
&LING 4423 | Morphology&
#Addresses the basic issues in the study of words and their structures. Provides an introduction to different types of morphological structures with examples from a wide range of languages.#
&LING 4424 | Computational Linguistics I&
#Computational models of natural languages. Topics are drawn from: tree syntax and context free grammar, finite state generative morpho-phonology, feature structure grammars, logical semantics, tabular parsing, Hidden Markov models, categorial and minimalist grammars, text corpora, information-theoretic sentence processing, discourse relations, and pronominal coreference.#
&LING 4425 | Pragmatics&
#What is the relationship between what words mean and how they are used? What is part of the grammar and what is a result of general reasoning? Pragmatics is often thought of as the study of how meaning depends on the context of utterance. However, it can be difficult to draw a line between pragmatics and semantics. In this course, we will investigate various topics that walk this line, including varieties of linguistic inference (including entailment and implicature), the pragmatics and compositional semantics of presupposition, anaphora and dynamic semantics, the semantics and pragmatics of focus, indexicals, and speech acts.#
&LING 4474 | Natural Language Processing&
#This course constitutes an introduction to natural language processing (NLP), the goal of which is to enable computers to use human languages as input, output, or both. NLP is at the heart of many of today's most exciting technological achievements, including machine translation, question answering and automatic conversational assistants. The course will introduce core problems and methodologies in NLP, including machine learning, problem design, and evaluation methods.#
&LING 4477 | Experimental Methods in Language Sciences&
#The class offers an introduction to the experimental methods and data analysis techniques commonly used in linguistics. Topics covered in the course will include basics of experimental design and statistical inference for hypothesis testing, as well as practical training on a variety of experimental paradigms used in syntax and semantics/pragmatics.#
&LING 4492 | Honors Research Workshop II&
#This course provides structure and guidance to students doing an honors thesis in linguistics. The course consists of biweekly meeting of all honors thesis writers with the course instructor. Students will submit drafts of the introduction, methodology, results, and conclusions. Students will comment on each others drafts. Students will also work on presentation skills.#
&LING 4494 | Honors Thesis Research&
#Directed honors thesis research for students working on an honors thesis, taken with the student's honors thesis chair or other committee member.#
&LING 4606 | Historical Syntax&
#No description available.#
&LING 6220 | From the Conquest to Caxton: Middle English Language, Literatures, History&
#This seminar will explore the English language and its literatures in its most diverse centuries, which 19th century philologists saw as the "middle" span: after the collapse of Old English language, poetic style, and indigenous power-centers at the Norman Conquest (1066), up to printing (1476), the beginnings of "standard Modern English," claims to an "English literary tradition," and the origins of Atlantic adventurism and imperialism. Between those benchmarks we'll consider multilingualism, English linguistic diversity and changes, social identity, literary forms, and ideas about language and literature, sampling many Middle English works and more fully reading the "Katherine Group," Gawain-poet, Piers Plowman, and Julian of Norwich's Showings.#
&LING 6248 | Native American Languages&
#This course explores the wide variety of languages indigenous to the Americas. There were thousands of languages spoken in the Americas before the arrival of Europeans and hundreds of these languages are still spoken today. We will look at several of these languages in terms of their linguistic structure as well as from social, historical, and political perspectives. No prior linguistic background is required and no previous knowledge of any Native American languages is presumed.#
&LING 6314 | Introduction to Historical Linguistics&
#Survey of the basic mechanisms of linguistic change, with examples from a variety of languages.#
&LING 6325 | Cayuga Language and Culture II&
#A continuation of LING 6324, with further exploration of Cayuga (Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫʼ) language and culture. Language instruction continues in an immersive learning environment with a focus on plants and growing in the spring.#
&LING 6402 | Phonology II&
#A continuation of LING 6401 with a focus on developing research skills.#
&LING 6404 | Syntax II&
#A continuation of LING 6403, focusing on syntactic dependencies, including the theory of control, an examination of locality constraints on movement, covert versus overt movement, and the syntax of quantification. The purpose of the course is to develop the background needed for independent syntactic research.#
&LING 6422 | Semantics II&
#Uses the techniques introduced in Semantics I to analyze linguistic phenomena, including quantifier scope, ellipsis, and referential pronouns. Temporal and possible worlds semantics are introduced and used in the analysis of modality, tense, and belief sentences. The phenomena of presupposition, indefinite descriptions, and anaphora are analyzed in a dynamic compositional framework that formalizes the idea that sentence meaning effects a change in an information state.#
&LING 6423 | Morphology&
#Addresses the basic issues in the study of words and their structures. Provides an introduction to different types of morphological structures with examples from a wide range of languages.#
&LING 6424 | Computational Linguistics I&
#Computational models of natural languages. Topics are drawn from: tree syntax and context free grammar, finite state generative morphophonology, feature structure grammars, logical semantics, tabular parsing, Hidden Markov models, categorial and minimalist grammars, text corpora, information-theoretic sentence processing, discourse relations, and pronominal coreference.#
&LING 6425 | Pragmatics&
#What is the relationship between what words mean and how they are used?  What is part of the grammar and what is a result of general reasoning?  Pragmatics is often thought of as the study of how meaning depends on the context of utterance.  However, it can be difficult to draw a line between pragmatics and semantics.  In this course, we will investigate various topics that walk this line, including varieties of linguistic inference including entailment, presupposition, and implicature), anaphora, indexicals, and speech acts.#
&LING 6477 | Experimental Methods in Language Sciences&
#The class offers an introduction to the experimental methods and data analysis techniques commonly used in linguistics. Topics covered in the course will include basics of experimental design and statistical inference for hypothesis testing, as well as practical training on a variety of experimental paradigms used in syntax and semantics/pragmatics.#
&LING 6601 | Topics in Phonetics-Phonological Theory&
#Examination of recent developments in the core areas of phonetics and phonology as well as its interfaces with other components of the grammar (e.g., morphosyntax, semantics or pragmatics). Topics covered include current approaches and relevant theoretical and historical perspectives.#
&LING 6603 | Research Workshop&
#Provides a forum for presentation and discussion of ongoing research, and development of professional skills.#
&LING 6604 | Research Workshop&
#Provides a forum for presentation and discussion of ongoing research, and development of professional skills.#
&LING 6606 | Historical Syntax&
#No description available.#
&LING 6692 | Phonetic Data Analysis Workshop&
#The phonetics data analysis workshop provides students with practice in analysis and visualization of phonetic data, using Matlab, R, and Praat. Experiment design and statistical methods are emphasized.#
&LING 6693 | Computational Psycholinguistics Discussion&
#This seminar provides a venue for feedback on research projects, invited speakers, and paper discussions within the area of computational psycholinguistics.#
&LING 6694 | Linguistic Meaning Lab&
#This seminar provides a venue for discussion of ongoing research, technical tutorials, invited speakers and paper discussions of topics related to experimental and computational approaches to natural language meaning.#
&LING 7702 | Directed Research&
#An independent study for graduate students.#
&LING 7712 | Syntax Seminar&
#Addresses current theoretical and empirical issues in syntax.#


$LSP | Latino Studies Program$
&LSP 1101 | Research Strategies in Africana and Latino Studies&
#The digital revolution has made an enormous amount of information available to research scholars, but discovering resources and using them effectively can be challenging. This course introduces students with research interests in Latino and Africana Studies to search strategies and methods for finding materials in various formats (e.g., digital, film, and print) using information databases such as the library catalog, print and electronic indexes, and the World Wide Web. Instructors provide equal time for lecture and hands-on learning. Topics include government documents, statistics, subject-specific online databases, social sciences, the humanities, and electronic citation management.#
&LSP 1250 | Spanish for Heritage Speakers I&
#This low-intermediate course expands Heritage students' confidence and competence in Spanish by providing opportunities to build upon the conversational skills they have. Through literary texts, other readings, music, films and the visual arts students broaden their vocabulary, improve grammatical accuracy, develop writing skills and enrich their understanding of the cultures of the Spanish-speaking world. The heritage student grew up speaking Spanish and finished high school in the U.S.#
&LSP 2020 | Spanish for Heritage Speakers&
#Designed to expand bilingual Heritage students' knowledge of Spanish by providing them with ample opportunities to develop and improve each of the basic language skills, with a particular focus on writing vocabulary. The heritage student has at least one parent of Hispanic origin and grew up speaking Spanish at home; s/he also finished high school here in the US. After this course, students may take SPAN 2095.#
&LSP 2152 | (Im)migration and (Im)migrants: Then and Now&
#How are migration dynamics produced? How do states and communities respond to and shape complex migration processes? This course will draw on the United States as a case study, focusing on Latino immigrants. Latinos are by far the largest immigrant group in the U.S., representing about 50% of all immigrants. Additionally, the U.S. has historically received the largest number of immigrants in the world. The class will examine the main debates around migration in fields such as Latino studies, migration studies, and political science. We begin with a historical and contemporary survey of global and regional migration trends. Next, we will review theories explaining why people migrate and how countries manage migration processes. We then focus on the U.S. immigration apparatus, examining past and present changes, including migration public policies. Central to this class is the exploration of multiple systems of marginalization that shape the opportunities, material conditions, and lived experiences of immigrants in the U.S. We conclude with an exploration of historical and contemporary migrant-led forms of resistance, such as the Immigrant Rights Movement, and its linkages to other transnational struggles for social justice.#
&LSP 3132 | Sanctuary in the Americas: Envisioning a Borderless World&
#This class will examine historical and contemporary developments in the politics of resistance, solidarity, and inclusionary policies around migration. We will place a special focus on North and Central America to understand the emergence and development of both the Old and the New Sanctuary Movements, broadly defined, as a transnational and diverse coalition of religious and political groups such as churches, synagogues, NGOs, educational institutions, and pro-migrant states and cities that offer "safe haven" or "sanctuary" to migrants holding various legal statuses. In addition, we will examine the origins, development, and current state of subnational pro-migrant public policies in the region. We will close the class with reflections on what a world without borders could look like. This course draws on a range of interdisciplinary theories and methods from the social sciences and humanities that will allow students to analyze, imagine, and devise creative ways of inclusion toward migrants and marginalized populations.#
&LSP 3215 | Performance and Immigration:Staging the Migrant, Alien, and Refugee in and outside the US&
#In this course, we interrogate how immigration debates are staged and experiences of belonging are redefined through performance. The categories of "undocumented," "illegal," "displaced," and "exile" collide on international and national stages when governmental bodies decide who gets to be a migrant and under what terms. We assess how bodies marked culturally and legally as "aliens" use performance to navigate complex migration laws and dangerous social terrains that appear to be shifting and solidifying at the same time. We consider performances on stage, as well as performance in a broader understanding. We examine visual, linguistic, and performative representations of migrant experiences. We analyze and write about performances that deal with issues of migration beyond economic and security models.#
&LSP 3336 | Border Environments&
#This course focuses on a place and a concept where two of the most urgent issues of our times - migration and environmental degradation - converge, collide, and shape each other. It examines borders not as abstract lines on the map, but as dynamic hubs that connect human societies, politics, and cultures with the natural and built environments that we inhabit and transform. Through scholarly and creative work from an array of borders around the world, we will develop new theoretical approaches and methodological toolkits for rethinking and re-visioning borders in an era of climate change, toxic pollution, and mass extinction. The course encourages multi- and inter-disciplinary projects from students and will feature guests from diverse areas, disciplines, and practices.#
&LSP 3405 | Multicultural Issues in Education&
#This course explores research on race, ethnicity and language in American education. It examines historical and current patterns of school achievement for minoritized youths. It also examines the cultural and social premises undergirding educational practices in diverse communities and schools. Policies, programs and pedagogy, including multicultural and bilingual education, are explored.#
&LSP 3551 | Modern and Contemporary Latin American Art&
#This course concerns a selection of influential artistic movements in Latin American from the early twentieth century to the present. Attention is given to issues such as the effects of colonialism and imperialism on Latin America's visual arts, the creation of national art, the relation of Latin American art and artists to cultural centers in Europe, The United States and other regions of the globe, the interaction of high art and popular culture, and the role of gender and race in various aspects of artistic practice. Students will also become acquainted with Latin American and Latinx artists working with new technologies.#
&LSP 3801 | War and Revolution in 20th Century Latino History&
#This course examines war and revolution as drivers of migration from Latin America and the Spanish Caribbean to the United States and Canada. From the War of 1898 to the wars in Central America, war and revolution have displaced millions of people, prompting internal and cross-border migration. This history underscores how migration is multicausal—that is, produced by a wide and complex range of intersecting drivers. War and revolution disrupt livelihoods, produce scarcity, and create the insecurity that makes it impossible to exercise a basic human right to stay home. The course also examines how Latinos have become actors in U.S. wars and interventions in their countries of ancestry.#
&LSP 4000 | Contemporary Issues in Latin - Latino America&
#Interested in Latino Studies and Latin American Studies? This course will explore topics in Anthropology, Art, Economics, History, Literature, Government, Sociology, etc., of US Latino and Latin American contexts. Course features guest speakers from Cornell and other institutions.#
&LSP 4210 | Undergraduate Independent Study&
#Guided independent study.#
&LSP 4556 | Decolonial Poetics and Aesthetics: Arts of Resistance in the Americas&
#Exploring a genealogy of Latinx, Afro-Latinx, Black, Indigenous, and Chicana/o/x theorizations of modernity and identity, the course asks, what is the decolonial? Is it a space between the colonial and post-colonial? Is it a creative process, an intellectual theorization, or a historical period? Is it a performance, intervention, or embodied experience? Tracing a historical trajectory of the decolonial in poetry, performance, installation, and visual art, the course examines decolonial modes of making and being from the sixteenth to the twenty first century.#
&LSP 4577 | Desbordando: Reading Caribbean Waters in Latinx Studies&
#As Latinx studies continues to expand beyond its nationalistic origins and re-examines its geographical bounds, nuancing the role of borders within the field becomes urgent. This course probes at the primacy of the border in Latinx studies by centering Caribbean waters. As a liquid that refuses to succumb to the violence of fragmentation and instead embodies iterations of radical wholeness, water has an innate capacity to "undo" borders, a quality epitomized by the Spanish verb "desbordar" (to overflow). Through discussion and analysis of key Latinx cultural products we will gain an appreciation for the multiple ways in which water sustains provocative contradictions across borders regarding representations of historical memory, gender and sexuality, migration, race, and religion and spirituality, among others.#
&LSP 4690 | Latin American and Latinx Environmentalisms&
#This course provides an introductory overview to environmental thought in Latin America and the Latinx diaspora. We will discuss pre-Columbian approaches to the nonhuman and colonialism's transformative impact on ecosystems in the hemispheric America's. We will then turn to contemporary debates about whether nature should be treated as a resource or as a commons, with special attention paid to Indigenous philosophers like Ailton Krenak, Latinx scholars like Laura Pulido, and visual artists like Laura Aguilar and Carolina Caycdo.#
&LSP 4701 | Nightlife&
#This course explores nightlife as a temporality that fosters countercultural performances of the self and that serves as a site for the emergence of alternative kinship networks. Focusing on queer communities of color, course participants will be asked to interrogate the ways in which nightlife demonstrates the queer world-making potential that exists beyond the normative 9-5 capitalist model of production. Performances of the everyday, alongside films, texts, and performance art, will be analyzed through a performance studies methodological lens. Through close readings and sustained cultural analysis, students will acquire a critical understanding of the potentiality of spaces, places, and geographies codified as "after hours" in the development of subcultures, alternative sexualities, and emerging performance practices.#
&LSP 4790 | Latinx Education Across the Americas&
#This course examines Latinx education in comparative perspective, with a focus on transnational communities and cross-border movements that link U.S. Latinx education with Latin American education. We ask: how do legacies of colonialism and empire shape the education of Latinx and Latin American communities? How are race, language, gender, cultural and national identity, and representation negotiated in schools? Drawing on ethnographic studies of education in and out of school, we explore how families and youths create knowledge, do literacy, and respond to cultural diversity, displacement, migration, and inequality. Throughout, we inquire into the potential for a decolonial and transformative education.#
&LSP 6000 | Contemporary Issues in Latin-Latino America&
#Interested in Latino Studies and Latin American Studies? This course will explore topics in Anthropology, Art, Economics, History, Literature, Government, Sociology, etc., of US Latino and Latin American contexts. Course features guest speakers from Cornell and other institutions.#
&LSP 6210 | Graduate Student Independent Study&
#Guided independent study.#
&LSP 6336 | Border Environments&
#This course focuses on a place and a concept where two of the most urgent issues of our times - migration and environmental degradation - converge, collide, and shape each other. It examines borders not as abstract lines on the map, but as dynamic hubs that connect human societies, politics, and cultures with the natural and built environments that we inhabit and transform. Through scholarly and creative work from an array of borders around the world, we will develop new theoretical approaches and methodological toolkits for rethinking and re-visioning borders in an era of climate change, toxic pollution, and mass extinction. The course encourages multi- and inter-disciplinary projects from students and will feature guests from diverse areas, disciplines, and practices.#
&LSP 6565 | Decolonial Poetics and Aesthetics: Arts of Resistance in the Americas&
#Exploring a genealogy of Latinx, Afro-Latinx, Black, Indigenous, and Chicana/o/x theorizations of modernity and identity, the course asks, what is the decolonial? Is it a space between the colonial and post-colonial? Is it a creative process, an intellectual theorization, or a historical period? Is it a performance, intervention, or embodied experience? Tracing a historical trajectory of the decolonial in poetry, performance, installation, and visual art, the course examines decolonial modes of making and being from the sixteenth to the twenty first century.#
&LSP 6701 | Nightlife&
#This course explores nightlife as a temporality that fosters countercultural performances of the self and that serves as a site for the emergence of alternative kinship networks.  Focusing on queer communities of color, course participants will be asked to interrogate the ways in which nightlife demonstrates the queer world-making potential that exists beyond the normative 9-5 capitalist model of production. Performances of the everyday, alongside films, texts, and performance art, will be analyzed through a performance studies methodological lens.  Through close readings and sustained cultural analysis, students will acquire a critical understanding of the potentiality of spaces, places, and geographies codified as "after hours" in the development of subcultures, alternative sexualities, and emerging performance practices.#
&LSP 7790 | Latinx Education Across the Americas&
#This course examines Latinx education in comparative perspective, with a focus on transnational communities and cross-border movements that link U.S. Latinx education with Latin American education. We ask: how do legacies of colonialism and empire shape the education of Latinx and Latin American communities? How are race, language, gender, cultural and national identity, and representation negotiated in schools? Drawing on ethnographic studies of education in and out of school, we explore how families and youths create knowledge, do literacy, and respond to cultural diversity, displacement, migration, and inequality. Throughout, we inquire into the potential for a decolonial and transformative education.#


$MAE | Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering$
&MAE 1900 | First-Year Independent Study in Mechanical Engineering&
#Individual research studies for students who want to pursue a particular analytical, computational, or experimental investigation outside of regular courses or for informal instruction supplementing that given in regular courses. An engineering report on the project is required of each student. Students must first make individual arrangements with a faculty sponsor and then submit an enrollment form, available online at https://www.mae.cornell.edu/mae/programs/undergraduate-programs/undergraduate-forms. Once approved, students will receive an enrollment pin to enroll in MAE 1900. Students are expected to spend 3-4 hours per week per credit hour working on the project. May not be used as a technical elective in the ME major.#
&MAE 2020 | Statics and Mechanics of Solids&
#This course presents the methods for analyzing deformable structures in equilibrium. It is fundamental to mechanical analysis and design and is the basis for many advanced courses and professions in mechanical, civil, materials, biomedical and biological engineering.#
&MAE 2030 | Dynamics&
#Newtonian dynamics of a particle, systems of particles, rigid bodies, simple mechanisms and simple harmonic oscillators. Impulse, momentum, angular momentum, work and energy. Two-dimensional (planar) kinematics including motion relative to a moving reference frame. Three dimensional rigid-body dynamics are introduced at the instructor's option. Setting up the differential equations of motion and solving them both analytically and numerically with MATLAB. In-lecture laboratory demonstrations illustrate basic principles.#
&MAE 2250 | Introduction to Mechanical Design&
#The majority of engineering courses focus on achieving quantitative outcomes using the proper applied formulas and metrics. This is not the case for MAE2250, which focuses on applying a process and justifying decisions which lead to a (hopefully desired) outcome. You can expect to be challenged by the types of complex and open-ended problems regularly encountered in engineering practice and provided with a methodology to begin to navigate these challenges. Many of these challenges will be qualitative in nature, with no one correct answer. Your
personal experiences and the experiences of your "end user" can – and should! - weigh into your final solutions.#
&MAE 3130 | Atomic and Molecular Structure of Matter&
#This course covers the atomic and molecular structure of crystalline and noncrystalline materials as well as selected analytical techniques for structural interrogation. Selected topics include, basic elements of structure; order and disorder; crystals; semicrystalline materials; amorphous materials; molecular materials; x-ray diffraction; small angle x-ray scattering.#
&MAE 3240 | Heat Transfer&
#This is the first course in heat transfer, with an emphasis on understanding the fundamental physics underlying different heat transfer processes, making proper approximations for analytical heat transfer calculations and numerical methods for engineering heat transfer analysis. Topics include: introduction to three modes of heat transfer, thermal resistance network analysis, steady-state conduction, transient conduction, numerical methods for heat conduction and convection using ANSYS, free convection, heat exchangers, radiation processes and properties.#
&MAE 3780 | Mechatronics&
#Mechatronics sits at the intersection of mechanical and electrical engineering.  Many modern mechanical systems (e.g. vehicles) includes embedded electronics and microcontrollers.  This course introduces students to mechatronic systems with a hands-on focus on circuits that interact with the world via sensors and actuators.  Students will learn the underlying theory behind circuit behavior along with extensive circuit prototyping and debugging.  The course will culminate in the design, fabrication, and programming of a mechatronic system such as a mobile robot or device for home/office automation.#
&MAE 3783 | Mechatronics&
#For description and learning outcomes, see MAE 3780.#
&MAE 4070 | Dynamics of Flight Vehicles&
#Introduction to stability and control of atmospheric-flight vehicles. At the end of the course, students will be able toderive from first principles the differential equations governing the motion of flight vehicles, formulate appropriate simplifying assumptions, solve for the aircraft motion through analytical or numerical means, analyze the static and dynamic stability properties of a given aircraft, and explain expected aircraft piloting behaviors through rigorous engineering reasoning.#
&MAE 4130 | Mechanics of Composite Structures&
#Covers the fundamentals of mechanical analysis and material selection for composite materials. Topics include an overview of composite types, advantages, applications and fabrication; anisotropic elasticity; specific composite constitutive equations including plane stress and lamination theory; failure analysis; boundary value problems using composite materials; experimental methods and an introduction to micromechanics. Lectures cover essential background material and theoretical developments. Labs provide hands-on experiences for understanding composite materials properties and performance.#
&MAE 4131 | Mechanics of Composite Structures&
#Covers the fundamentals of mechanical analysis and material selection for composite materials. Topics include an overview of composite types, advantages, applications and fabrication; anisotropic elasticity; specific composite constitutive equations including plane stress and lamination theory; failure analysis; boundary value problems using composite materials; experimental methods and an introduction to micromechanics. Lectures cover essential background material and theoretical developments.#
&MAE 4150 | GPS: Theory and Design&
#Analysis of GPS operating principles and engineering practice with a culminating design exercise. GPS satellite orbital dynamics, navigation data modeling, position/navigation/timing solution algorithm, receiver and antenna characteristics, analysis of error and accuracy, differential GPS.#
&MAE 4160 | Spacecraft Technology and Systems Architecture&
#This course is a survey of contemporary space technology from subsystems through launch and mission operations, all in the context of spacecraft and mission design. It focuses on the classical subsystems of robotic and human-rated spacecraft, planetary rovers, and other space vehicles, as well as on contemporary engineering practice. Topics covered include subsystem technologies and the systems-engineering principles that tie them together into a spacecraft architecture. Subsystem technologies discussed include communications, thermal subsystems, structure, spacecraft power, payloads (remote sensing, in-situ sensing, human life support), entry/descent/landing, surface mobility, and flight-computer hardware and software.#
&MAE 4161 | Spacecraft Technology and Systems Architecture&
#This course is a survey of contemporary space technology from subsystems through launch and mission operations, all in the context of spacecraft and mission design. It focuses on the classical subsystems of robotic and human-rated spacecraft, planetary rovers, and other space vehicles, as well as on contemporary engineering practice. Topics covered include subsystem technologies and the systems-engineering principles that tie them together into a spacecraft architecture. Subsystem technologies discussed include communications, thermal subsystems, structure, spacecraft power, payloads (remote sensing, in-situ sensing, human life support), entry/descent/landing, surface mobility, and flight-computer hardware and software.#
&MAE 4180 | Autonomous Mobile Robots&
#Creating robots capable of performing complex tasks autonomously requires one to address a variety of different challenges such as sensing, perception, control, planning, mechanical design, and interaction with humans. In recent years many advances have been made toward creating such systems, both in the research community (different robot challenges and competitions) and in industry (industrial, military, and domestic robots). This course gives an overview of the challenges and techniques used for creating autonomous mobile robots. Topics include sensing, localization, mapping, path planning, motion planning, obstacle and collision avoidance, and multi-robot control.#
&MAE 4190 | Fast Robots&
#The course focus is on systems level design and implementation of fast and dynamic autonomous robots. With the recent DIY movement, design of kinematic robots is largely becoming a software challenge. In dynamic robots, however, any latency or noise can be detrimental. We will design a fast autonomous car, explore dynamic behaviors, acting forces, sensors, and reactive control on an embedded processor, as well as the benefit of partial off-board computation. Students will learn how to derive design specifications from abstract problem descriptions and gain familiarity with rapid prototyping techniques, system debugging, system evaluation, and online dissemination of work.#
&MAE 4220 | Introduction to Internet of Things - Technology and Engagement&
#This interdisciplinary design course aims to provide a holistic introduction to Internet of Things (IoT) and train students on the core technological and communication skills through community engagement and working on real-world applications. IoT has become an enabler for new economic activities and provides potentially cost-effective solutions to a wide range of societal challenges. Students team up with community partners throughout a semester to tackle a real-world problem using IoT technology. The project topics include, but are not limited to, energy, environmental, civic infrastructure monitoring. The project teams will apply engineering design principles and critically examine sensor selection, sensor deployment, wireless communication, data quality, security, and privacy as well as value proposition for IoT-based solutions. The key learning outcome of this course is that students will grasp how to develop IoT-based technological solutions and become competent in communicating how to use the IoT technology responsibly to create positive societal impact.#
&MAE 4221 | Introduction to Internet of Things - Technology and Engagement&
#This interdisciplinary design course aims to provide a holistic introduction to Internet of Things (IoT) and train students on the core technological and communication skills through community engagement and working on real-world applications. IoT has become an enabler for new economic activities and provides potentially cost-effective solutions to a wide range of societal challenges. Students team up with community partners throughout a semester to tackle a real-world problem using IoT technology. The project topics include, but are not limited to, energy, environmental, civic infrastructure monitoring. The project teams will apply engineering design principles and critically examine sensor selection, sensor deployment, wireless communication, data quality, security and privacy as well as value proposition for IoT-based solutions. The key learning outcome of this course is that students will grasp how to develop IoT-based technological solutions and become competent in communicating how to use the IoT technology responsibly to create positive societal impact.#
&MAE 4230 | Intermediate Fluid Dynamics&
#This course builds on the foundation of MAE 3230. The lectures emphasize on the physics and mathematical analysis of the subject. Topics include incompressible flows, compressible flows, and computational fluid dynamics. As an integral part of the course, you will learn numerical method and how to use ANSYS/Fluent to solve flow problems. The students will develop problem-solving skills, through which to cultivate an appreciation for the rich and complex structure of fluids, and appreciation for fundamental ideas in fluid dynamics.#
&MAE 4231 | Intermediate Fluid Dynamics&
#This course builds on the foundation of MAE 3230. The lectures emphasize on the physics and mathematical analysis of the subject. Topics include incompressible flows, compressible flows, and computational fluid dynamics. As an integral part of the course, you will learn numerical method and how to use ANSYS/Fluent to solve flow problems. The students will develop problem-solving skills, through which to cultivate an appreciation for the rich and complex structure of fluids, and appreciation for fundamental ideas in fluid dynamics.#
&MAE 4291 | Supervised Senior Design Experience&
#Substantial design experience based on the knowledge and skills acquired in earlier course work and incorporating engineering standards and realistic constraints. Sections of this course satisfy the BS ME senior design requirement. Sections are directed by a faculty member as an individual or a team design exercise. Students must first make individual arrangements with a faculty sponsor and then submit an enrollment form, available online at https://www.mae.cornell.edu/mae/programs/undergraduate-programs/undergraduate-forms. Once approved, students will receive an enrollment pin to enroll in MAE 4291.#
&MAE 4510 | Propulsion of Aircraft and Rockets&
#Introduction to air and rocket propulsion. Emphasis on air-breathing gas-turbines. Chemical rocket propulsion. Brief discussion of of ramjets and of propellers. Application of thermodynamic and fluid-mechanical principles to analysis of performance and design, including fuel efficiency and environmental impacts.#
&MAE 4530 | Computer-Aided Engineering: Applications to Biological Processes&
#Introduction to simulation-based design as an alternative to prototype-based design; modeling and optimization of complex real-life processes for design and research, using industry-standard physics-based computational software. Emphasis is on problem formulation, starting from a real process and developing its computer model. Modeling application (project) can be biomedical (thermal therapy and drug delivery) or broader biological and bioenvironmental applications that involve heat transfer, mass transfer, and fluid flow. Computational topics introduce the finite-element method, model validation, pre- and post-processing, and pitfalls of using computational software. Students choose their own semester-long project, which is a major part of the course (no final exam).#
&MAE 4590 | Introduction to Controlled Fusion: Principles and Technology&
#Introduction to the physical principles and various engineering aspects underlying power generation by controlled fusion. Topics include: fuels and conditions required for fusion power and basic fusion-reactor concepts, fundamental aspects of plasma physics relevant to fusion plasmas and basic engineering problems for a fusion reactor, and an engineering analysis of proposed magnetic and/or inertial confinement fusion-reactor designs.#
&MAE 4610 | Entrepreneurship for Engineers&
#No description available.#
&MAE 4630 | Advanced Product Design&
#This hands-on course instructs on strategies to invent - make - and disseminate products that solve an identified need. These products can be consumer, enterprise, research, for profit or non-profit. The lectures will primarily be discussion based on assigned readings and tasks, and guest lectures from domain experts.  This course combines lectures and field/lab activities on the new product development cycle: invention based on bioinspiration, iterative design based on customer discovery, team brainstorming, prototyping, testing/consumer feedback, and manufacturing innovation.#
&MAE 4631 | Advanced Product Design&
#This hands-on course instructs on strategies to invent - make - and disseminate products that solve an identified need. These products can be consumer, enterprise, research, for profit or non-profit. The lectures will primarily be discussion based on assigned readings and tasks, and guest lectures from domain experts. The course combines lectures and field/lab activities on the new product development cycle: invention based on bioinspiration, iterative design based on customer discovery, team brainstorming, prototyping, testing/consumer feedback, and manufacturing innovation.#
&MAE 4640 | Orthopaedic Tissue Mechanics&
#Application of mechanics and materials principles to orthopaedic tissues. Physiology of bone, cartilage, ligament, and tendon and the relationship of these properties to their mechanical function. Mechanical behavior of skeletal tissues. Functional adaptation of these tissues to their mechanical environment. Tissue engineering of replacement structures.#
&MAE 4641 | Orthopaedic Tissue Mechanics&
#Application of mechanics and materials principles to orthopaedic tissues. Physiology of bone, cartilage, ligament, and tendon and the relationship of these properties to their mechanical function. Mechanical behavior of skeletal tissues. Functional adaptation of these tissues to their mechanical environment. Tissue engineering of replacement structures. Senior design report required.#
&MAE 4670 | Polymer Mechanics&
#This course will provide foundations of polymer mechanics building from the basics of mechanics of materials. The focus will be split between experimental methods/data interpretation and modeling approaches. Topics will include hyper-elasticity, viscoelasticity, glass transition temperature, and plasticity with applications to both synthetic and biological materials. There will also be a scientific literature reading component through which students will be able to pick their own focus areas in the latter part of the semester.#
&MAE 4671 | Polymer Mechanics&
#This course will provide foundations of polymer mechanics building from the basics of mechanics of materials. The focus will be split between experimental methods/data interpretation and modeling approaches. Topics will include hyper-elasticity, viscoelasticity, glass transition temperature, and plasticity with applications to both synthetic and biological materials. There will also be a scientific literature reading component through which students will be able to pick their own focus areas in the latter part of the semester.#
&MAE 4721 | Advanced Applications of Finite Element Analysis Using Ansys&
#This course prepares students to solve industry-relevant problems in structural mechanics and dynamics using Ansys simulation software. This is a problem-based course where students will learn finite-element applications by solving practical problems involving realistic 3D CAD geometries. Applications considered include pressure vessel stress analysis, wind turbine blade buckling, turbine disk vibration, electronics enclosure dynamics and robot arm motion. The focus will be on developing a strong conceptual understanding of what's inside the simulation blackbox so as to move beyond "garbage-in, garbage-out." Verification and validation of simulation results is emphasized throughout. Rigid-body dynamics applications will also be covered. Concepts, solution approaches and best practices learned will be applicable to the use of other industry-standard simulation software. Suitable for both on-campus and distance learning students.#
&MAE 4770 | Engineering Vibrations&
#The course covers the free and forced response of vibrating mechanical systems modeled as having one, two and several degrees of freedom, as well as models of continuous structures such as beams.#
&MAE 4780 | Feedback Control Systems&
#This course covers the analysis and design of linear feedback systems in both the frequency and time domains. The course includes a laboratory that examines modeling and control of representative dynamic processes. The frequency domain aspects are analyzed via Laplace transforms, transfer functions, root locus, and frequency response methods. The time domain aspects are analyzed via state space models, stability, controllability, observability, state feedback, and observers.#
&MAE 4850 | Special Technical Elective&
#Special offering providing technical depth and/or breadth beyond the required engineering common curriculum, in an applications area or discipline with connections to engineering.  This course number is used for courses that are not a permanent part of the curriculum.#
&MAE 4860 | Automotive Engineering&
#Selected topics in the analysis and design of vehicle components and vehicle systems. Emphasis on automobiles. Engines, transmissions, suspension, brakes, and aerodynamics are discussed. The course uses first principles and applies them to specific systems. The course is highly quantitative, using empirical and analytical approaches.#
&MAE 4861 | Automotive Engineering&
#Selected topics in the analysis and design of vehicle components and vehicle systems. Emphasis on automobiles. Engines, transmissions, suspension, brakes, and aerodynamics are discussed. The course uses first principles and applies them to specific systems. The course is highly quantitative, using empirical and analytical approaches. Senior Design report required.#
&MAE 4900 | Individual and Group Projects in Mechanical Engineering&
#Individual or group study or project for students who want to pursue a particular analytical, computational, or experimental investigation outside of regular courses or for informal instruction supplementing that given in regular courses. An engineering report on the project is required of each student. Students are expected to spend 3-4 hours per week per credit hour working on the project. Students must first make individual arrangements with a faculty sponsor and then submit an enrollment form, available online at https://www.mae.cornell.edu/mae/programs/undergraduate-programs/undergraduate-forms. Once approved, students will receive an enrollment pin to enroll in MAE 4900.#
&MAE 4980 | Teaching Experience in Mechanical Engineering&
#Students serve as teaching assistants in Cornell Mechanical Engineering classes or in local middle school technology classes.#
&MAE 5070 | Dynamics of Flight Vehicles&
#Introduction to stability and control of atmospheric-flight vehicles. At the end of the course, students will be able toderive from first principles the differential equations governing the motion of flight vehicles, formulate appropriate simplifying assumptions, solve for the aircraft motion through analytical or numerical means, analyze the static and dynamic stability properties of a given aircraft, and explain expected aircraft piloting behaviors through rigorous engineering reasoning.#
&MAE 5135 | Mechanics of Composite Structures&
#Covers the fundamentals of mechanical analysis and material selection for composite materials. Topics include an overview of composite types, advantages, applications and fabrication; anisotropic elasticity; specific composite constitutive equations including plane stress and lamination theory; failure analysis; boundary value problems using composite materials; experimental methods and an introduction to micromechanics. Lectures cover essential background material and theoretical developments. Labs provide hands-on experiences for understanding composite materials properties and performance.#
&MAE 5160 | Spacecraft Technology and Systems Architecture&
#This course is a survey of contemporary space technology from subsystems through launch and mission operations, all in the context of spacecraft and mission design. It focuses on the classical subsystems of robotic and human-rated spacecraft, planetary rovers, and other space vehicles, as well as on contemporary engineering practice. This course includes an in-depth design activity suitable for MEng students. Topics covered include subsystem technologies and the systems-engineering principles that tie them together into a spacecraft architecture. Subsystem technologies discussed include communications, thermal subsystems, structure, spacecraft power, payloads (remote sensing, in-situ sensing, human life support), entry/descent/landing, surface mobility, and flight-computer hardware and software. The final project consists of architecting a complete spacecraft system with appropriate subsystems, with designs supported by parametric analysis and simulation.#
&MAE 5180 | Autonomous Mobile Robots&
#Creating robots capable of performing complex tasks autonomously requires one to address a variety of different challenges such as sensing, perception, control, planning, mechanical design, and interaction with humans. In recent years many advances have been made toward creating such systems, both in the research community (different robot challenges and competitions) and in industry (industrial, military, and domestic robots). This course gives an overview of the challenges and techniques used for creating autonomous mobile robots. Topics include sensing, localization, mapping, path planning, motion planning, obstacle and collision avoidance, and multi-robot control.#
&MAE 5190 | Fast Robots&
#The course focus is on systems level design and implementation of fast and dynamic autonomous robots. With the recent DIY movement, design of kinematic robots is largely becoming a software challenge. In dynamic robots, however, any latency or noise can be detrimental. We will design a fast autonomous car, explore dynamic behaviors, acting forces, sensors, and reactive control on an embedded processor, as well as the benefit of partial off-board computation. Students will learn how to derive design specifications from abstract problem descriptions and gain familiarity with rapid prototyping techniques, system debugging, system evaluation, and online dissemination of work.#
&MAE 5210 | Dimensional Tolerancing in Mechanical Design&
#Designers use dimensional tolerances to limit spatial variations in mechanical parts and assemblies; the goals are interchangeability in assembly, performance, and cost. This course covers traditional limit tolerances briefly, but focuses mainly on modern geometric tolerances and their role in assembly control. Students learn how to represent assemblies in terms of mating and relational constraints, and how to design tolerances for relatively simple parts and assemblies.#
&MAE 5220 | Introduction to Internet of Things - Technology and Engagement&
#This interdisciplinary design course aims to provide a holistic introduction to Internet of Things (IoT) and train students on the core technological and communication skills through community engagement and working on real-world applications. IoT has become an enabler for new economic activities and provides potentially cost-effective solutions to a wide range of societal challenges. Students team up with community partners throughout a semester to tackle a real-world problem using IoT technology. The project topics include, but are not limited to, energy, environmental, civic infrastructure monitoring. The project teams will apply engineering design principles and critically examine sensor selection, sensor deployment, wireless communication, data quality, security and privacy as well as value proposition for IoT-based solutions. The key learning outcome of this course is that students will grasp how to develop IoT-based technological solutions and become competent in communicating how to use the IoT technology responsibly to create positive societal impact.#
&MAE 5230 | Intermediate Fluid Dynamics with CFD&
#Builds on the foundation of MAE 3230. The lectures emphasize on the physics and mathematical analysis of the subject. Topics include incompressible flows, compressible flows, and computational fluid dynamics. As an integral part of the course, you will learn numerical method and how to use ANSYS/Fluent to solve flow problems. The students will develop problem-solving skills, through which to cultivate an appreciation for the rich and complex structure of fluids, and appreciation for fundamental ideas in fluid dynamics.#
&MAE 5260 | Design for Manufacture and Assembly&
#Successful component and system design is dependent on the ability to specify products that balance cost, performance, and component robustness. This course will consider methods for design optimization that are driven by an attention to manufacturing and assembly processes while maintaining consideration for functional sensitivities.#
&MAE 5350 | Multidisciplinary Design Optimization&
#This course presents a rigorous, quantitative multidisciplinary design methodology that incorporates the creative side of the design process. Through a topic of your choice, learn how to use multidisciplinary design optimization (MDO) to create advanced and complex engineering systems that must be competitive in performance and life-cycle value. Multidisciplinary design aspects appear frequently during the conceptual and preliminary design of complex new systems and products, where different disciplines (e.g. structures, aerodynamics, controls, optics, costing, manufacturing, environmental science, marketing, etc.) have to be tightly coupled in order to arrive at a competitive solution. This course is designed to be fundamentally different from most traditional university optimization courses which focus mainly on the mathematics and algorithms for search. Focus will be equally strong on all three aspects of the problem: (i) the multidisciplinary character of engineering systems, (ii) design of these complex systems, and (iii) tools for optimization. Students will demonstrate mastery of the subject by working in small teams on a term project to apply the multidisciplinary design optimization principles to design and optimize an engineering system of their choice.#
&MAE 5469 | Energy Seminar II&
#Energy Seminars will continue to explore energy-related topics of emerging, contemporary and historical interest. An abbreviated list of subjects explored in the seminars includes: global energy resources, energy generation technologies (present and future), energy storage options, environmental impacts and climate change mitigation, energy policy, and energy delivery economics and systems. Seminar speakers will be distinguished practicing engineers and executives from industry and government as well as faculty members from several departments at Cornell, and other academic institutions. Students from any department in Engineering or the Physical Sciences should find these talks informative.#
&MAE 5510 | Propulsion of Aircraft and Rockets&
#Introduction to air and rocket propulsion. Emphasis on air-breathing gas-turbines. Chemical rocket propulsion. Brief discussion of of ramjets and of propellers. Application of thermodynamic and fluid-mechanical principles to analysis of performance and design, including fuel efficiency and environmental impacts.#
&MAE 5530 | Computer-Aided Engineering: Applications to Biological Processes&
#Introduction to simulation-based design as an alternative to prototype-based design; modeling and optimization of complex real-life processes for design and research, using industry-standard physics-based computational software. Emphasis is on problem formulation, starting from a real process and developing its computer model. Modeling application (project) can be biomedical (thermal therapy and drug delivery) or broader biological and bioenvironmental applications that involve heat transfer, mass transfer, and fluid flow. Computational topics introduce the finite-element method, model validation, pre- and post-processing, and pitfalls of using computational software. Students choose their own semester-long project, which is a major part of the course (no final exam).#
&MAE 5630 | Advanced Product Design&
#This hands-on course instructs on strategies to invent - make - and disseminate products that solve an identified need. These products can be consumer, enterprise, research, for profit or non-profit. The lectures will primarily be discussion based on assigned readings and tasks, and guest lectures from domain experts. The course combines lectures and field/lab activities on the new product development cycle: invention based on bioinspiration, iterative design based on customer discovery, team brainstorming, prototyping, testing/consumer feedback, and manufacturing innovation.#
&MAE 5640 | Orthopaedic Tissue Mechanics&
#Application of mechanics and materials principles to orthopaedic tissues. Physiology of bone, cartilage, ligament, and tendon and the relationship of these properties to their mechanical function. Mechanical behavior of skeletal tissues. Functional adaptation of these tissues to their mechanical environment. Tissue engineering of replacement structures.#
&MAE 5670 | Polymer Mechanics&
#This course will provide foundations of polymer mechanics building from the basics of mechanics of materials. The focus will be split between experimental methods/data interpretation and modeling approaches. Topics will include: hyper-elasticity, viscoelasticity, glass transition temperature, and plasticity with applications to both synthetic and biological materials. There will also be a scientific literature reading component through which students will be able to pick their own focus areas in the latter part of the semester.#
&MAE 5720 | Advanced Applications of Finite Element Analysis Using Ansys&
#This course prepares students to solve industry-relevant problems in structural mechanics and dynamics using Ansys simulation software. This is a problem-based course where students will learn finite-element applications by solving practical problems involving realistic 3D CAD geometries. Applications considered include pressure vessel stress analysis, wind turbine blade buckling, turbine disk vibration, electronics enclosure dynamics and robot arm motion. The focus will be on developing a strong conceptual understanding of what's inside the simulation blackbox so as to move beyond "garbage-in, garbage-out." Verification and validation of simulation results is emphasized throughout. Rigid-body dynamics applications will also be covered. Concepts, solution approaches and best practices learned will be applicable to the use of other industry-standard simulation software. Suitable for both on-campus and distance learning students.#
&MAE 5770 | Engineering Vibrations&
#This course covers the free and forced response of vibrating mechanical systems modeled as having one, two and several degrees of freedom, as well as models of continuous structures such as beams.#
&MAE 5780 | Feedback Control Systems&
#This course covers the analysis and design of linear feedback systems in both the frequency and time domains. The course includes a laboratory that examines modeling and control of representative dynamic processes. The frequency domain aspects are analyzed via Laplace transforms, transfer functions, root locus, and frequency response methods. The time domain aspects are analyzed via state space models, stability, controllability, observability, state feedback, and observers.#
&MAE 5860 | Automotive Engineering&
#Selected topics in the analysis and design of vehicle components and vehicle systems. Emphasis on automobiles. Engines, transmissions, suspension, brakes, and aerodynamics are discussed. The course uses first principles and applies them to specific systems. The course is highly quantitative, using empirical and analytical approaches.#
&MAE 5920 | Systems Analysis Behavior and Optimization&
#This is an advanced course in the application of analytical methodologies and tools to the analysis and optimization of complex systems. On completion of this course, students should be able to use probability and statistics as a modeling and analysis tool for systems exhibiting uncertainty; be able to use algorithms and dynamic programming to model and optimize systems with a recursive structure; be able to use optimization tools to optimize complex systems and tune parameters.#
&MAE 5940 | Professional Development for Master of Engineering in MAE&
#Covers tools needed to build skills for career development and the job search. Also covers a process to organize, complete and present the Master of Engineering Project.#
&MAE 5949 | Enterprise Engineering Colloquium&
#Weekly meeting for master of engineering students. Discussion with industry speakers and faculty members on the uses of engineering in the effective and efficient design, manufacturing, marketing, distribution, sustainment, and retirement of goods and services.#
&MAE 5950 | Theory and Practice of Systems Architecture&
#Every system has an architecture (its essence, or DNA), i.e., a high-level abstraction of its design that provides a unifying concept for detailed design and commits most of the system's performance and lifecycle cost. This course presents the frameworks, methods, and tools required to analyze and synthesize system architectures. The course has a theory part that emphasizes synergies between humans and computers in the architecture process, and a practical part based on a long project and guest lectures by real system architects. The theory part covers topics such as architecture views, layers and projections, stakeholder networks, dealing with fuzziness, automatic concept generation, architecture space exploration, patterns and styles, heuristics, and knowledge engineering. The practice part focuses on special topics such as commonality, platforming, reuse, upstream and downstream influences, and software architecture.#
&MAE 6030 | Space Structures&
#The Space Structures class introduces students to mechanical concepts used in the realization of lightweight structures, their application to space systems, and the scientific methods employed to assess their performance. The class provides the analytical foundations to analyze modern structures that fold, deploy, and undergo large deformations, as well as a methodology to design them.#
&MAE 6260 | Multiscale Computational Mechanics&
#This course will provide the foundations for applied multiscale computational mechanics through a hands-on approach. The focus will be primarily on particle-based methods that emphasize practical usages of open-source software in a Linux environment, such as Python, ORCA, Quantum Espresso, LAMMPS, and NAMD. Topics will include introductory levels of python programming, quantum mechanics, density functional theory, statistical mechanics, molecular dynamics, and multiscale coupling methods with broad applications in characterizing the structural, mechanical, and thermal properties for both organic and inorganic materials.#
&MAE 6510 | Advanced Heat Transfer&
#An advanced treatment of conduction and convection from a theoretical perspective. Topics include: conservation of linear momentum in integral and differential forms; steady state and transient conduction; boundary layer flows with emphasis on laminar conditions; scale analysis; forced and natural convection; internal and external flows; fundamentals of radiative exchange between surfaces and relationship to problems of environmental importance (e.g., global climate change); numerical simulation to solve conduction and convection problems.#
&MAE 6540 | Plasmas for Propulsion&
#This course covers the physics, thermodynamics, and mechanics of ionized fluids for propulsion applications. This course begins by introducing principles of statistical thermodynamics to derive distribution functions for the fluid description of charged particles. Electrohydrodynamic and magnetohydrodynamic continuum models are introduced and applied to equilibrium problems ranging from the transport of a multi-species charged liquid in a propellant reservoir to the acceleration of a supersonic plasma flow. Both continuum and kinetic approaches are applied to understand the key principles and non-linear phenomena pertinent to the design and operation ion engines, Hall thrusters, and generic ion plumes.#
&MAE 6560 | Nanoscale Energy Transport and Conversion&
#No description available.#
&MAE 6700 | Advanced Dynamics&
#This course offers an in-depth look at several contemporary approaches to classical mechanics, i.e. the kinematics and kinetics of systems of particles and bodies that may be rigid or elastic.  Frames of reference, coordinate systems, vector kinematics, and concepts of energy and momentum are considered in the most general terms.  Analytical methods include Kane's formulation, Hamilton's equations, and the Udwadia-Kalaba method.  Holonomic and non-holonomic systems are considered in this context.  The course introduces concepts in differential geometry as well as the stability and control of such systems.#
&MAE 6710 | Human-Robot Interaction: Algorithms and Experiments&
#As robots move from factory floors and battlefields into homes, offices, schools, and hospitals, how can we build robotic systems made for human interaction?  Course will cover core engineering, computational, and experimental techniques in human-robot interaction (HRI). Lectures will cover key algorithms in Probabilistic Robotics, including Bayesian Networks, Markov Models, HMMs, Kalman and Particle Filters, MDP and POMPD, Supervised Learning, and Reinforcement Learning. Seminal and recent papers in HRI will be discussed, including topics such as: generating intentional action, reasoning about humans, social navigation, teamwork and collaboration, machine learning with humans in the loop, and human-robot dialog. Students will learn methods for designing and analyzing HRI experiments.  Presentation of papers in class, and an HRI-related research project in teams will be required.  Intended for M.Eng to PhD students from multiple disciplines including MAE, CS, ECE and IS.#
&MAE 6730 | Robot Manipulation&
#Robot manipulation is the ability for a robot to interact physically with objects in the world and manipulate them towards completing a task. It is one of the greatest technical challenges in robotics, due primarily to the interplay of uncertainty about the world and clutter within it. As robots become integrated into complex human environments, robot manipulation is increasingly necessary to assist humans in these unstructured environments. Robotic manipulation will enable applications like personal assistant robots in the home and factory worker robots in advanced manufacturing. This course is a mixture of lectures and paper presentations and covers the fundamental theory, concepts, and systems of robot manipulation, including both software and hardware. Topics we will cover this semester include perception, state estimation, robot arm kinematics and dynamics, task and motion planning, machine learning, controls, human-robot interaction towards various robot manipulation tasks. The course features a semester-long group project in which students propose, formalize, and execute a working robotic manipulation system towards a real-world task. The scope of possible components is quite broad and extends beyond traditional robotics issues into other aspects of CS. This course is offered to prepare a student for Ph.D. research in robot manipulation.#
&MAE 6755 | Finite Element Method: Theory and Applications in Mechanics and Multiphysics&
#This class is an intermediate-level course on the linear Finite Element Method (FEM) for graduate engineering students. The students will learn to: set up the strong formulation of mechanical, hydraulic, thermal, and coupled problems, write the variational formulation, discretize the weak form in space and time, choose a resolution algorithm, write an input file for a FEM software, and interpret numerical results. Applications will focus on climate change and energy. First, one-dimensional problems will be solved for one dependent variable, e.g., elongation, fluid flow, heat transfer. Second, hydro-mechanical equations for two-phase porous media will be introduced and applied to consolidation problems. Next, 2D space discretization and numerical integration will be explained and applied through simulation and analysis of problems of plane elasticity and seepage. The course will conclude with the modeling unsaturated porous media with applications to geological storage, evapo-transpiration, and subsidence.#
&MAE 6760 | Model-Based Estimation&
#Course covers a variety of ways in which models and experimental data can be used to estimate model quantities that are not directly measured. Covers methods for solving the class of inverse problems that take the following form: given partial information about a system, what is the behavior of the whole system? Main estimation methods presented are batch least-squares-type estimation for general problems and Kalman filtering for dynamic system problems. Course deals with the issue of observability, which amounts to a consideration of whether a given inverse problem has a unique solution, and briefly covers the concept of statistical hypothesis testing. Techniques for linear and nonlinear models are taught. Both theory and application are presented.#
&MAE 6810 | Methods of Applied Mathematics I&
#Course covers: Cartesian tensors, linear algebra and complex variables.#
&MAE 6900 | Special Investigations in Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering&
#The Master of Engineering Project adds real world, applied experience to an MEng Program. Projects are the centerpiece of the program, leveraging new and learned subject matter to highlight engineering skills in ways that mirror employment after school. Projects are done in a focus area, under an advisor's direction, usually a faculty member, but also corporate partners. Projects are applied, utilizing engineering tools to complete a a design, an apparatus, a process, or an analysis.#
&MAE 6910 | M.Eng. Independent Study&
#This course is designed to allow students to pursue individual learning or topics not covered by existing curriculum that relate to a focus area. Students are required to have a faculty advisor or supervisor for the course. Each course is individualized based on a plan of study negotiated between the student and faculty. Students work independently, and faculty provide guidance and supervision. An independent study must be approved by the Master of Engineering Director. A maximum of four credits will the allowed.#
&MAE 6998 | Graduate Research Internship for International Students&
#Off-campus internship in which graduate students gain experience in mechanical and/or aerospace engineering.#
&MAE 7400 | Finite Element Method for Fluid-Structure Interaction&
#No description available.#
&MAE 7999 | Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering Colloquium&
#MAE 7999 is a weekly seminar series featuring invited speakers both internal and external. Topics range the areas in Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering. The purpose of MAE 7999 is twofold: (a) to expose students to current research activities, challenges, and opportunities on the frontiers of Mechanical and Aerospace engineering, and (b) to improve student presentation skills by attending and critiquing presentations.#
&MAE 8900 | Research in Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering&
#Independent research in an area of mechanical and aerospace engineering under the guidance of a member of the faculty.#


$MATH | Mathematics$
&MATH 1006 | Academic Support for MATH 1106&
#Reviews material presented in MATH 1106 lectures, provides problem-solving techniques and tips as well as prelim review. Provides further instruction for students who need reinforcement. Not a substitute for attending MATH 1106 lectures or discussions.#
&MATH 1011 | Academic Support for MATH 1110&
#Reviews material presented in MATH 1110 lectures, provides problem-solving techniques and tips as well as prelim review. Provides further instruction for students who need reinforcement. Not a substitute for attending MATH 1110 lectures or discussions.#
&MATH 1012 | Academic Support for MATH 1120&
#Reviews material presented in MATH 1120 lectures, provides problem-solving techniques and tips as well as prelim review. Provides further instruction for students who need reinforcement. Not a substitute for attending MATH 1120 lectures or discussions.#
&MATH 1021 | Academic Support for MATH 2210&
#Reviews material presented in MATH 2210 lectures, provides problem-solving techniques and tips as well as prelim review. Provides further instruction for students who need reinforcement. Not a substitute for attending MATH 2210 lectures or discussions.#
&MATH 1106 | Modeling with Calculus for the Life Sciences&
#The goal of this course is to give students a strong basis in some quantitative skills needed in the life and social sciences. There will be an emphasis on modeling, using fundamental concepts from calculus developed in the course, including: derivatives, integrals, and introductory differential equations. Examples from the life sciences are used throughout the course. To give a concrete example, we will study predator-prey populations. We will write down mathematical models that describe the evolution of these populations, analyze both quantitative and qualitative properties to make predictions about the future of these populations, and discuss the assumptions and limitations of the models. Note that while we will cover the topics of derivatives and integrals, this course has a different, much more applied, focus from courses such as MATH 1110 or a typical high school calculus course.#
&MATH 1110 | Calculus I&
#Topics include functions and graphs, limits and continuity, differentiation and integration of algebraic, trigonometric, inverse trig, logarithmic, and exponential functions; applications of differentiation, including graphing, max-min problems, tangent line approximation, implicit differentiation, and applications to the sciences; the mean value theorem; and antiderivatives, definite and indefinite integrals, the fundamental theorem of calculus, and the area under a curve.#
&MATH 1120 | Calculus II&
#Focuses on integration: applications, including volumes and arc length; techniques of integration, approximate integration with error estimates, improper integrals, differential equations and their applications. Also covers infinite sequences and series: definition and tests for convergence, power series, Taylor series with remainder, and parametric equations.#
&MATH 1340 | Strategy, Cooperation, and Conflict&
#We apply mathematical reasoning to problems arising in the social sciences. We discuss game theory and its applications to questions of governing and the analysis of political conflicts. The problem of finding fair election procedures to choose among three or more alternatives is analyzed.#
&MATH 1910 | Calculus for Engineers&
#Essentially a second course in calculus. Topics include techniques of integration, finding areas and volumes by integration, exponential growth, partial fractions, infinite sequences and series, tests of convergence, and power series.#
&MATH 1920 | Multivariable Calculus for Engineers&
#Introduction to multivariable calculus. Topics include partial derivatives, double and triple integrals, line and surface integrals, vector fields, Green's theorem, Stokes' theorem, and the divergence theorem.#
&MATH 2210 | Linear Algebra&
#Topics include vector algebra, linear transformations, matrices, determinants, orthogonality, eigenvalues, and eigenvectors. Applications are made to linear differential or difference equations. The lectures introduce students to formal proofs. Students are required to produce some proofs in their homework and on exams.#
&MATH 2220 | Multivariable Calculus&
#Differential and integral calculus of functions in several variables, line and surface integrals as well as the theorems of Green, Stokes, and Gauss.#
&MATH 2240 | Theoretical Linear Algebra and Calculus&
#Topics include vector fields; line integrals; differential forms and exterior derivative; work, flux, and density forms; integration of forms over parametrized domains; and Green's, Stokes', and divergence theorems.#
&MATH 2310 | Linear Algebra for Data Science&
#An introduction to linear algebra for students interested in applications to data science. The course diverges from traditional linear algebra courses by emphasizing data science applications while teaching similar concepts. Key topics include matrices as data tables, high-dimensional datasets, singular value decomposition for data compression, and linear transformations in computer graphics.#
&MATH 2930 | Differential Equations for Engineers&
#Introduction to ordinary and partial differential equations. Topics include: first-order equations (separable, linear, homogeneous, exact); mathematical modeling (e.g., population growth, terminal velocity); qualitative methods (slope fields, phase plots, equilibria, and stability); numerical methods; second-order equations (method of undetermined coefficients, application to oscillations and resonance, boundary-value problems and eigenvalues); and Fourier series. A substantial part of this course involves partial differential equations, such as the heat equation, the wave equation, and Laplace's equation. (This part must be present in any outside course being considered for transfer credit to Cornell as a substitute for MATH 2930.)#
&MATH 2940 | Linear Algebra for Engineers&
#Linear algebra and its applications. Topics include: matrices, determinants, vector spaces, eigenvalues and eigenvectors, orthogonality and inner product spaces; applications include brief introductions to difference equations, Markov chains, and systems of linear ordinary differential equations. May include computer use in solving problems.#
&MATH 3040 | Prove It!&
#In mathematics, the methodology of proof provides a central tool for confirming the validity of mathematical assertions, functioning much as the experimental method does in the physical sciences. In this course, students learn various methods of mathematical proof, starting with basic techniques in propositional and predicate calculus and in set theory and combinatorics, and then moving to applications and illustrations of these via topics in one or more of the three main pillars of mathematics: algebra, analysis, and geometry. Since cogent communication of mathematical ideas is important in the presentation of proofs, the course emphasizes clear, concise exposition.#
&MATH 3110 | Introduction to Analysis&
#Provides a transition from calculus to real analysis. Topics include rigorous treatment of fundamental concepts in calculus: including limits and convergence of sequences and series, compact sets; continuity, uniform continuity and differentiability of functions. Emphasis is placed upon understanding and constructing mathematical proofs.#
&MATH 3320 | Introduction to Number Theory&
#An introductory course on number theory, the branch of algebra that studies the deeper properties of integers and their generalizations. Usually includes most of the following topics: the Euclidean algorithm, continued fractions, Pythagorean triples, Diophantine equations such as Pell's equation, congruences, quadratic reciprocity, binary quadratic forms, Gaussian integers, and factorization in quadratic number fields. May include a brief introduction to Fermat's Last Theorem.#
&MATH 3340 | Abstract Algebra&
#An introduction to structures of abstract algebra, including groups, rings, fields, factorization of polynomials and integers, congruences, and the structure of finite abelian groups. Additional topics include modules over Euclidean domain and Sylow theorems.#
&MATH 3360 | Applicable Algebra&
#Introduction to the concepts and methods of abstract algebra that are of interest in applications. Covers the basic theory of groups, rings and fields and their applications to such areas as public-key cryptography and error-correcting codes. Applications include the RSA cryptosystem and use of finite fields to construct error-correcting codes. Topics include elementary number theory, Euclidean algorithm, prime factorization, congruences, theorems of Fermat and Euler, elementary group theory, Chinese remainder theorem, factorization in the ring of polynomials, and classification of finite fields.#
&MATH 4030 | History of Mathematics&
#Development of mathematics from Babylon and Egypt and the Golden Age of Greece through its nineteenth century renaissance in the Paris of Cauchy and Lagrange and the Berlin of Weierstrass and Riemann. Covers basic algorithms underlying algebra, analysis, number theory, and geometry in historical order. Theorems and exercises cover the impossibility of duplicating cubes and trisecting angles, which regular polygons can be constructed by ruler and compass, the impossibility of solving the general fifth degree algebraic equation by radicals, the transcendence of pi. Students give presentations from original sources over 5000 years of mathematics.#
&MATH 4130 | Honors Introduction to Analysis I&
#Introduction to the rigorous theory underlying calculus, covering the real number system and functions of one variable. Based entirely on proofs. The student is expected to know how to read and, to some extent, construct proofs before taking this course. Topics typically include construction of the real number system, properties of the real number system, continuous functions, differential and integral calculus of functions of one variable, sequences and series of functions.#
&MATH 4140 | Honors Introduction to Analysis II&
#Proof-based introduction to further topics in analysis. Topics may include the Lebesgue measure and integration, functions of several variables, differential calculus, implicit function theorem, infinite dimensional normed and metric spaces, Fourier series, ordinary differential equations.#
&MATH 4180 | Complex Analysis&
#Theoretical and rigorous introduction to complex variable theory. Topics include complex numbers, differential and integral calculus for functions of a complex variable including Cauchy's theorem and the calculus of residues, elements of conformal mapping.#
&MATH 4200 | Differential Equations and Dynamical Systems&
#Covers ordinary differential equations in one and higher dimensions: qualitative, analytic, and numerical methods. Emphasis is on differential equations as models and the implications of the theory for the behavior of the system being modeled and includes an introduction to bifurcations.#
&MATH 4260 | Numerical Analysis: Linear and Nonlinear Problems&
#Introduction to the fundamentals of numerical linear algebra: direct and iterative methods for linear systems, eigenvalue problems, singular value decomposition. In the second half of the course, the above are used to build iterative methods for nonlinear systems and for multivariate optimization. Strong emphasis is placed on understanding the advantages, disadvantages, and limits of applicability for all the covered techniques. Computer programming is required to test the theoretical concepts throughout the course.#
&MATH 4280 | Introduction to Partial Differential Equations&
#Topics are selected from first-order quasilinear equations, classification of second-order equations, with emphasis on maximum principles, existence, uniqueness, stability, Fourier series methods. Additional topics as time permits.#
&MATH 4310 | Linear Algebra&
#Introduction to linear algebra, including the study of vector spaces, linear transformations, matrices, and systems of linear equations. Additional topics are quadratic forms and inner product spaces, canonical forms for various classes of matrices and linear transformations.#
&MATH 4340 | Honors Introduction to Algebra&
#Honors version of a course in abstract algebra, which treats the subject from an abstract and axiomatic viewpoint, including universal mapping properties. Topics include groups, groups acting on sets, Sylow theorems; rings, Euclidean domains, factorization, structure theorem of finitely generated modules over a principal ideal domain; fields, root adjunction, finite fields, introduction to Galois theory. The course emphasizes understanding the theory with proofs in both homework and exams.#
&MATH 4500 | Matrix Groups&
#An introduction to a topic that is central to mathematics and important in physics and engineering. The objects of study are certain classes of matrices, such as orthogonal, unitary, or symplectic matrices. These classes have both algebraic structure (groups) and geometric/topological structure (manifolds). Thus the course will be a mixture of algebra and geometry/topology, with a little analysis as well. The topics will include Lie algebras (which are an extension of the notion of vector multiplication in three-dimensional space), the exponential mapping (a generalization of the exponential function of calculus), and representation theory (which studies the different ways in which groups can be represented by matrices). Concrete examples will be emphasized. Background not included in the prerequisites will be developed as needed.#
&MATH 4540 | Introduction to Differential Geometry&
#Differential geometry involves using calculus to study geometric concepts such as curvature and geodesics. This introductory course focuses on the differential geometry of curves and surfaces. It may also touch upon the higher-dimensional generalizations, Riemannian manifolds, which underlie the study of general relativity.#
&MATH 4710 | Basic Probability&
#Introduction to probability theory, which prepares the student to take MATH 4720. The course begins with basics: combinatorial probability, mean and variance, independence, conditional probability, and Bayes formula. Density and distribution functions and their properties are introduced. The law of large numbers and the central limit theorem are stated and their implications for statistics are discussed.#
&MATH 4720 | Statistics&
#Statistics have proved to be an important research tool in nearly all of the physical, biological, and social sciences. This course serves as an introduction to statistics for students who already have some background in calculus, linear algebra, and probability theory. Topics include parameter estimation, hypothesis testing, and linear regression. The course emphasizes both the mathematical theory of statistics and techniques for data analysis that are useful in solving scientific problems.#
&MATH 4740 | Stochastic Processes&
#A one-semester introduction to stochastic processes which develops the theory together with applications. The course will always cover Markov chains in discrete and continuous time and Poisson processes. Depending upon the interests of the instructor and the students, other topics may include queuing theory, martingales, Brownian motion, and option pricing.#
&MATH 4900 | Supervised Research&
#An independent research course by arrangement with an individual professor.  The goal is for the student to perform an independent investigation into a specific mathematical question.  The student and professor will set expectations and grading policies at the beginning of the term.#
&MATH 4901 | Supervised Reading&
#An independent reading course by arrangement with an individual professor. The goal is for the student to master a body of mathematics outside the normal curriculum. The student and professor will set expectations and grading policies at the beginning of the term.#
&MATH 4980 | Special Study for Mathematics Teaching&
#Examines principles underlying the content of the secondary school mathematics curriculum, including connections with the history of mathematics, technology, and mathematics education research. One credit is awarded for attending two Saturday workshops (see math.cornell.edu/math-5080) and writing a paper. Other credit options are available for students completing additional work, such as tutoring at a local middle school or completing a research paper or project.#
&MATH 5080 | Special Study for Teachers&
#Examines principles underlying the content of the secondary school mathematics curriculum, including connections with the history of mathematics, technology, and mathematics education research.#
&MATH 5200 | Differential Equations and Dynamical Systems&
#Covers ordinary differential equations in one and higher dimensions: qualitative, analytic, and numerical methods. Emphasis is on differential equations as models and the implications of the theory for the behavior of the system being modeled and includes an introduction to bifurcations.#
&MATH 6120 | Complex Analysis&
#MATH 6110-6120 are the core analysis courses in the mathematics graduate program. MATH 6120 covers complex analysis, Fourier analysis, and distribution theory.#
&MATH 6220 | Applied Functional Analysis&
#Functional analysis is a branch of mathematical analysis that mainly focuses on the study of infinite-dimensional vector spaces and the operators acting upon them. It builds upon results and ideas from linear algebra and real and complex analysis to develop general frameworks that can be used to study analytical problems. Functional analysis plays a pivotal role in several areas of mathematics, physics, engineering, and even in some areas of computer science and economics. This course will cover the basic theory of Banach, Hilbert, and Sobolev spaces, as well as explore several notable applications, from analyzing partial differential equations (PDEs), numerical analysis, inverse problems, control theory, optimal transportation, and machine learning.#
&MATH 6302 | Lattices: Geometry, Cryptography, and Algorithms&
#A mathematically rigorous course on lattices. Lattices are periodic sets of vectors in high-dimensional space. They play a central role in modern cryptography, and they arise naturally in the study of high-dimensional geometry (e.g., sphere packings). We will study lattices as both geometric and computational objects. Topics include Minkowski's celebrated theorem, the famous LLL algorithm for finding relatively short lattice vectors, Fourier-analytic methods, basic cryptographic constructions, and modern algorithms for finding shortest lattice vectors. We may also see connections to algebraic number theory.#
&MATH 6320 | Algebra&
#MATH 6310-6320 are the core algebra courses in the mathematics graduate program. MATH 6320 covers Galois theory, representation theory of finite groups, and introduction to homological algebra.#
&MATH 6370 | Algebraic Number Theory&
#An introduction to number theory focusing on the algebraic theory. Topics include, but are not limited to, number fields, Dedekind domains, class groups, Dirichlet's unit theorem, local fields, ramification, decomposition and inertia groups, and the distribution of primes.#
&MATH 6510 | Algebraic Topology&
#MATH 6510-MATH 6520 are the core topology courses in the mathematics graduate program. MATH 6510 is an introductory study of certain geometric processes for associating algebraic objects such as groups to topological spaces. The most important of these are homology groups and homotopy groups, especially the first homotopy group or fundamental group, with the related notions of covering spaces and group actions. The development of homology theory focuses on verification of the Eilenberg-Steenrod axioms and on effective methods of calculation such as simplicial and cellular homology and Mayer-Vietoris sequences. If time permits, the cohomology ring of a space may be introduced.#
&MATH 6540 | Homotopy Theory&
#This course is an introduction to some of the fundamentals of homotopy theory. Homotopy theory studies spaces up to homotopy equivalence, not just up to homeomorphism. This allows for a variety of algebraic techniques which are not available when working up to homeomorphism. This class studies the fundamentals and tools of homotopy theory past homology and cohomology. Topics may include computations of higher homotopy groups, simplicial sets, model categories, spectral sequences, and rational homotopy theory.#
&MATH 6620 | Riemannian Geometry&
#Topics include linear connections, Riemannian metrics and parallel translation; covariant differentiation and curvature tensors; the exponential map, the Gauss Lemma and completeness of the metric; isometries and space forms, Jacobi fields and the theorem of Cartan-Hadamard; the first and second variation formulas; the index form of Morse and the theorem of Bonnet-Myers; the Rauch, Hessian, and Laplacian comparison theorems; the Morse index theorem; the conjugate and cut loci; and submanifolds and the Second Fundamental form.#
&MATH 6670 | Algebraic Geometry&
#A first course in algebraic geometry. Affine and projective varieties. The Nullstellensatz. Schemes and morphisms between schemes. Dimension theory. Potential topics include normalization, Hilbert schemes, curves and surfaces, and other choices of the instructor.#
&MATH 6720 | Probability Theory II&
#The second course in a graduate probability series. Topics include conditional expectation, martingales, Markov chains, Brownian motion, and (time permitting) elements of stochastic integration.#
&MATH 6730 | Mathematical Statistics I&
#This course will focus on the finite sample theory of statistical inference, emphasizing estimation, hypothesis testing, and confidence intervals.  Specific topics include: uniformly minimum variance unbiased estimators, minimum risk equivariant estimators, Bayes estimators, minimax estimators, the Neyman-Pearson theory of hypothesis testing, and the construction of optimal invariant tests.#
&MATH 6810 | Logic&
#Covers basic topics in mathematical logic, including propositional and predicate calculus; formal number theory and recursive functions; completeness and incompleteness theorems, compactness and Skolem-Loewenheim theorems. Other topics as time permits.#
&MATH 7150 | Fourier Analysis&
#An introduction to (mostly Euclidean) harmonic analysis. Topics usually include convergence of Fourier series, harmonic functions and their conjugates, Hilbert transform, Calderon-Zygmund theory, Littlewood-Paley theory, pseudo-differential operators, restriction theory of the Fourier transform, connections to PDE. Applications to number theory and/or probability theory may also be discussed, as well as Fourier analysis on groups.#
&MATH 7160 | Topics in Partial Differential Equations&
#Selection of advanced topics from partial differential equations. Content varies.#
&MATH 7290 | Seminar on Scientific Computing and Numerics&
#Talks on various methods in scientific computing, the analysis of their convergence properties and computational efficiency, and their adaptation to specific applications.#
&MATH 7310 | Topics in Algebra&
#Selection of advanced topics from algebra. Course content varies.#
&MATH 7370 | Topics in Number Theory&
#Selection of advanced topics from number theory. Course content varies.#
&MATH 7410 | Topics in Combinatorics&
#Selection of advanced topics in combinatorics. Course content varies.#
&MATH 7620 | Topics in Geometry&
#Selection of advanced topics from modern geometry. Content varies.#
&MATH 7820 | Seminar in Logic&
#A twice weekly seminar in logic. Typically, a topic is selected for each semester, and at least half of the meetings of the course are devoted to this topic with presentations primarily by students. Opportunities are also provided for students and others to present their own work and other topics of interest.#
&MATH 7900 | Supervised Reading and Research&
#Supervised research for the doctoral dissertation.#


$MEDVL | Medieval Studies$
&MEDVL 1101 | FWS: Aspects of Medieval Culture&
#Topics and reading lists vary from section to section, but all will in some way address the subject of medieval culture. Consult the John S. Knight Institute Current Courses webpage to access current year offerings, instructors and section descriptions.#
&MEDVL 1740 | Imperial China&
#This course explores the history of imperial China between the 3rd century b.c.e. and the 16th century c.e. with a focus on the following questions: How did imperial Chinese states go about politically unifying diverse peoples over vast spaces? How did imperial Chinese approaches to governance and to relations with the outer world compare with strategies employed by other historical empires? How did those approaches change over time? How did major socio-cultural formations — including literary canons; religious and familial lineages; marketing networks; and popular book and theatrical cultures — grow and take root, and what were the broader ramifications of those developments? How did such basic configurations of human difference as Chinese (civilized)-barbarian identity, high-low status, and male-female gender operate and change over time?#
&MEDVL 2170 | Early Modern Iberian Survey&
#This course explores major texts and themes of the Hispanic tradition from the 11th to the 17th centuries. We will examine general questions on literary analysis and the relationship between literature and history around certain events, such as medieval multicultural Iberia, the creation of the Spanish Inquisition in the 15th century and the expulsion of the Jews in 1492; the encounter between the Old and the New Worlds; the 'opposition' of high and low in popular culture, and of the secular and the sacred in poetry and prose. Readings may be drawn from medieval short stories and miracle collections; chivalric romances, Columbus, Lazarillo de Tormes, Cervantes, Lope de Vega, Calderón, and Sor Juana Inés de la Cruz, among others.#
&MEDVL 2355 | Introduction to Medieval Art and Culture&
#Survey lecture course covering the creation, encoding, and reception of Medieval (roughly AD 500-1500) European, Byzantine, and Islamic architecture, ornament, manuscripts, liturgical and luxury objects.  The approach is thematic but chronologically grounded; attention is also given to cultural interaction in the Mediterranean basin.#
&MEDVL 2555 | Sex and Sexuality in Islam&
#This course will introduce students to the study of sex and sexuality in the medieval and early modern Islamic World, ending at the dawn of the twentieth century; we will begin with the study of desire in pre-Islamic and early-Islamic poetry and end with the study of the impact of colonialism on the family, the home and morality across the Islamic world. Students will read (in English) from the Qur'an, the sayings of the Prophet Muhammad, obscene and chaste poetry, erotological works, medical treatises, moral condemnations of sex, legal case studies, erotic stories and travel literature. Students will also engage with modern scholarship on the history of sex and sexuality in the Islamic world. Major topics of study will include: the composition of the family across time and space, the intersection between slavery and sexuality, homosexuality and homoerotic desire in the premodern world, marriage and adultery, questions of consent and sexual violence in law and storytelling, and the discrepancies between law, morality and social practice.#
&MEDVL 2590 | The Crusades&
#This course focuses on the ideas and practices of Crusading, from its birth ca. 1100 to the fall of the Kingdom of Jerusalem in 1292. We explore the roots of Crusading in Christian Europe and in the Islamic Near East; the conquest, settlement, and loss of the Latin Levant; and the impacts and afterlives of Crusading. Central themes include the institutional, intellectual, and political histories of Christianity (Latin, Byzantine, and other) and Islam; military, social, and economic narratives of the period; and social, cultural, and environmental analysis, using both material and textual sources.#
&MEDVL 2722 | Of Saints, Poets, and Revolutionaries: Medieval and Modern Iran and Central Asia&
#From the poet-kings of medieval Persia to the trading networks of the famed "Silk Road" to the wandering mystics of Herat to the constitutional revolution of Iran to the colonial and post-colonial occupations of contemporary Afghanistan, this course offers a broad cultural and political history of Iranian and Turkic Central Asia.  In addition, we will explore the highly complex intellectual, artistic, and architectural trends and "cross-cultural" exchanges that formed the backbone of many disparate Iranian-Turkic cultures.#
&MEDVL 3120 | Beowulf&
#Beowulf has received renewed attention in popular culture, thanks to the production of recent movies and riveting new translations. The poem's popular appeal lies in its complex depictions of monsters, its accounts of heroic bravery, and its lavish portrayals of life in the Meadhall. Through close readings we will also explore the "darker side" of the poem: its punishing depictions of loss and exile, despairing meditations on unstable kingship and dynastic failure, and harrowing depictions of heroic defeat and the vanities of existence on the Middle-Earth. Attention will be given to the poem's cultural contexts, its literary heritage, and its layered pagan and Christian perspectives. A bilingual edition of the poem will be assigned so that students may read in Old and Modern English.#
&MEDVL 3212 | Philosophy in the Islamic World (800-1400)&
#An introduction to some of the major thinkers and philosophical developments in the Islamic world from the 9th to the 14th centuries CE. Figures include Muslim thinkers such as Al-Kindī, Al-Rāzī, Al-Fārābī, Ibn Sīnā (Avicenna), Al-Ghazālī, and Ibn Rushd (Averroes) as well as important representatives of the Jewish tradition such as Moses ben Maimon (Maimonides). Themes include philosophical theology (the existence and nature of God, God's relation to the created world, prophecy, the place of reason in religion), metaphysics (the nature of existence, fundamental ontology, causality), mind and knowledge (the nature and mechanisms of cognition, our knowledge of ourselves and the world), and ethics and political philosophy (how best to live and organize the state).#
&MEDVL 3316 | Old Norse II&
#Old Norse is a collective term for the earliest North Germanic literary languages: Old Icelandic, Old Norwegian, Old Danish, and Old Swedish. The richly documented Old Icelandic is the center of attention, and the purpose is twofold: the students gain knowledge of an ancient North Germanic language, important from a linguistic point of view, and gain access to the medieval Icelandic (and Scandinavian) literature.  Extensive reading of Old Norse texts, among them selections from some of the major Icelandic family sagas: Njals saga, Grettis saga, and Egils saga, as well as the whole Hrafnkels saga.#
&MEDVL 3448 | Islamic Mysticism: Life, Love, and History&
#Sufism, popularly understood as Islamic mysticism, is a loose name given to a broad and diverse collection of beliefs, practices and groups that range and vary across time and space. Going from a small and largely secretive group of mystical practitioners to a mainstream form of piety in the late medieval period, Sufism has a fascinating history, filled with intrigue, controversy, conflict and interesting characters. In this course, students will delve deep into the history of Sufism and read widely from across the Sufi and anti-Sufi traditions. Concentration will be given to practical questions of how Sufis saw themselves and their relationship to God and the world, how they built mystic community, spurned or embraced family life, interacted with mainstream society, and engaged in controversial erotic practices. Across the course, we will read Sufi histories and biographies, poetry, introductory treatises, as well as anti-Sufi polemics and stories.#
&MEDVL 3530 | A Mediterranean Society and Its Culture&
#This course examines the cultural and historical interaction of Muslims and Jews from the emergence of Islam in the seventh century through the classical age of Islam down to the turn of the thirteenth century. The intersection of the two cultures (scriptural, spiritual, intellectual, literary, communal, and interpersonal) and members of their respective religious communities will be studied through readings of primary texts (in translation). The course will conclude with some brief reflections on historical memory and the modern and contemporary significance of the two religious communities' interactions during the classical age of Islam.#
&MEDVL 4201 | Topics in Medieval Latin Literature&
#This topics seminar will explore genres, forms, and theories of Medieval Latin poetry in the twelfth and thirteenth centuries (with a few forays into the fourteenth century and beyond). Topics include biblical and liturgical verse, historical epic, philosophical and didactic poetry, satire and parody, the ars versificandi, and historical/contemporary critical approaches to Medieval Latin poetics (Faral, Raby, Norberg, Zumthor, Leupin, Tilliette, Kay, et al.).#
&MEDVL 4910 | Approaches to Medieval Violence&
#'Violence' has become an unavoidable - and urgently troubling - buzzword in contemporary Western culture. We worry about its manifestations and representations in our own civilization, we scan foreign societies with which we interact for any sign of it, we fantasize about consummating it or construct our utopias around its absence. This course is intended as an opportunity for students working on a variety of topics, periods and areas in premodern Europe to investigate its relevance to their own studies. Through an examination of readings on violence in particular historical contexts, from Late Antiquity to the Early Modern period, we will seek to elicit reflection on what is meant by the concept, to prompt consideration of distinctions among forms of violence, and to sample a variety of analytical approaches and tools.#
&MEDVL 4963 | China's Early Modern&
#Theories of modernization have inspired, informed, and plagued histories of middle and late imperial China. For the Song-Qing eras (roughly 10th-19th centuries), comparative studies have variously found and sought to explain modernization emerging earlier than in Europe, an absence of modernization, or alternative paths of modernization.  Regional models have argued for pan-East Asian systems and patterns of modernization. Global models have argued that China had a vital role in European development as a provenance of modernizing institutions and ideas, as a source of exploited resources, or otherwise as an integral part of global systems. In this course we explore these historiographical debates and develop critical perspectives, including approaches to escaping Eurocentric and teleological frameworks.#
&MEDVL 6020 | Latin Philosophical Texts&
#Reading and translation of Latin philosophical texts.#
&MEDVL 6120 | Beowulf&
#Beowulf has received renewed attention in popular culture, thanks to the production of recent movies and riveting new translations. The poem's popular appeal lies in its complex depictions of monsters, its accounts of heroic bravery, and its lavish portrayals of life in the Meadhall. Through close readings we will also explore the "darker side" of the poem: its punishing depictions of loss and exile, despairing meditations on unstable kingship and dynastic failure, and harrowing depictions of heroic defeat and the vanities of existence on the Middle-Earth. Attention will be given to the poem's cultural contexts, its literary heritage, and its layered pagan and Christian perspectives. A bilingual edition of the poem will be assigned so that students may read in Old and Modern English.#
&MEDVL 6201 | Topics in Medieval Latin Literature&
#This topics seminar will explore genres, forms, and theories of Medieval Latin poetry in the twelfth and thirteenth centuries (with a few forays into the fourteenth century and beyond). Topics include biblical and liturgical verse, historical epic, philosophical and didactic poetry, satire and parody, the ars versificandi, and historical/contemporary critical approaches to Medieval Latin poetics (Faral, Raby, Norberg, Zumthor, Leupin, Tilliette, Kay, et al.).#
&MEDVL 6210 | Topics in Medieval Philosophy&
#Graduate seminar covering a topic in medieval philosophy. Spring 2025 Topics include: Augustine; Philosophy in the Islamic World (800-1400).#
&MEDVL 6310 | Methods in Medieval&
#Topic: Writing Through the Forest in Search of Trees. Hello, Humanities Student! Are you a plotter or a pantser? Not sure? Come and join us to find out, and to gain valuable insight into what kind of a writer you are, and how to manage that writer most effectively and productively. This theme-centered methods seminar, through a communal focus on trees, woods, glens, and copses in the pre-modern world, will hone in on the most indispensable tool in the humanist's belt: writing. From the generation of ideas, to their organization into an outline (or a blueprint, or whatever euphemism we, as a group or as individuals, decide to apply to the initial, tangled pile of yarn) to the first draft. Followed by frank and constructive criticism of the initial draft as a group and in pairs, and then on to the part that all students—really, all humanists…okay, all writers—find to be the greatest struggle: "Your paper has some good ideas, but it really needs a rewrite." Now what do you do? As we write, and rewrite, we will also read widely. In addition to primary sources, scholarly articles and essays, we will include criticism, personal essay, theory, excerpts from fiction, and more, in an effort to open students' writing up to a myriad of possibilities for persuasive and compelling written communication.#
&MEDVL 6330 | A Mediterranean Society and Its Culture&
#This course examines the cultural and historical interaction of Muslims and Jews from the emergence of Islam in the seventh century through the classical age of Islam down to the turn of the thirteenth century. The intersection of the two cultures (scriptural, spiritual, intellectual, literary, communal, and interpersonal) and members of their respective religious communities will be studied through readings of primary texts (in translation). The course will conclude with some brief reflections on historical memory and the modern and contemporary significance of the two religious communities' interactions during the classical age of Islam.#
&MEDVL 6448 | Islamic Mysticism: Life, Love, and History&
#Sufism, popularly understood as Islamic mysticism, is a loose name given to a broad and diverse collection of beliefs, practices and groups that range and vary across time and space. Going from a small and largely secretive group of mystical practitioners to a mainstream form of piety in the late medieval period, Sufism has a fascinating history, filled with intrigue, controversy, conflict and interesting characters. In this course, students will delve deep into the history of Sufism and read widely from across the Sufi and anti-Sufi traditions. Concentration will be given to practical questions of how Sufis saw themselves and their relationship to God and the world, how they built mystic community, spurned or embraced family life, interacted with mainstream society, and engaged in controversial erotic practices. Across the course, we will read Sufi histories and biographies, poetry, introductory treatises, as well as anti-Sufi polemics and stories.#
&MEDVL 6910 | Approaches to Medieval Violence&
#'Violence' has become an unavoidable - and urgently troubling - buzzword in contemporary Western culture. We worry about its manifestations and representations in our own civilization, we scan foreign societies with which we interact for any sign of it, we fantasize about consummating it or construct our utopias around its absence. This course is intended as an opportunity for students working on a variety of topics, periods and areas in premodern Europe to investigate its relevance to their own studies. Through an examination of readings on violence in particular historical contexts, from Late Antiquity to the Early Modern period, we will seek to elicit reflection on what is meant by the concept, to prompt consideration of distinctions among forms of violence, and to sample a variety of analytical approaches and tools.#
&MEDVL 6963 | China's Early Modern&
#Theories of modernization have inspired, informed, and plagued histories of middle and late imperial China. For the Song-Qing eras (roughly 10th-19th centuries), comparative studies have variously found and sought to explain modernization emerging earlier than in Europe, an absence of modernization, or alternative paths of modernization.  Regional models have argued for pan-East Asian systems and patterns of modernization. Global models have argued that China had a vital role in European development as a provenance of modernizing institutions and ideas, as a source of exploited resources, or otherwise as an integral part of global systems. In this course we explore these historiographical debates and develop critical perspectives, including approaches to escaping Eurocentric and teleological frameworks.#
&MEDVL 8010 | Directed Study - Individual&
#This course gives students the opportunity to work with a selected instructor to pursue special interests or research not treated in regularly scheduled courses. After getting permission of the instructor, students should contact the department to request access to an instructor's section. Enrolled students are required to provide the department with a course description and/or syllabus along with the instructor's approval by the end of the first week of classes.#
&MEDVL 8020 | Directed Study - Group&
#This course should be used for an independent study in which a small group of students works with one member of the graduate faculty. After getting permission of the instructor, students should contact the department to request access to an instructor's section. Enrolled students are required to provide the department with a course description and/or syllabus along with the instructor's approval by the end of the first week of classes.#


$MGMT | Graduate Management$
&MGMT 5020 | Managerial Reporting&
#This course focuses on using internal organizational data to improve decision making. In this class, we discuss cost behavior, the use of cost information for internal decision making, behavioral impacts on management planning and control, budgeting, variance analysis, and the measurement and management of innovation and customer relationships. Instruction is a mixture of lecture and case discussion. Grading is based on exams, assignments, and class contribution.#
&MGMT 5080 | Operations Management&
#Operations management concerns managing different processes and activities that produce value in the form of goods and services. Increased competition, expanding product variety and more demanding consumers require more efficient operations management. Effective operations management can enable companies to gain market share, reduce cost, and improve customer service. This course is designed to introduce students to the basic concepts of operations management and the methods useful for solving real-world operations management problems.#
&MGMT 5090 | Strategy&
#This course is about understanding why some firms are more successful than others. This course develops the knowledge and skills necessary to effectively analyze and formulate strategy, be it as a manager, a management consultant, or an investment banker. The ultimate objective of this analysis is to guide strategic decisions. Most case studies will involve firms facing important strategic decisions. The course provides a language, theories, and frameworks that help in making those decisions.#
&MGMT 5110 | Financial Modeling&
#Financial modeling is the art and science of constructing spreadsheet models of firms' future financial statements. This class draws on and integrates students' knowledge of concepts learned in prior accounting classes by modeling the effect on the income statement, balance sheet, and statement of cash flows of financial transactions such as leveraged buyouts, mergers and acquisitions, and corporate reorganizations.#
&MGMT 5260 | Advanced Corporate Finance&
#This class is designed to provide you with the financial tools to (a) value potential corporate investment opportunities, and (b) understand which securities should be used to finance corporate investment ("capital structure decision"). These basic skills are essential for students interested in commercial banking, investment banking, mergers and acquisitions, private equity, venture
capital, corporate financial management, consulting and asset management. The class is divided into two sections, which correspond to the two main goals of the course. The first part of the course covers methods used to value investment projects. Particular attention will be given to calculating free cash flows, discount rates, valuing incremental investments, the effects of financing on value, the methods of weighted-average cost of capital (WACC) and adjusted present value (APV). The second part of the course will focus on understanding which securities should be used to finance investment. This section starts with an analysis of tax and bankruptcy implications of debt financing, and moves on to consider information and agency problems. We will discuss information problems associated with equity financing, the incentive effects of debt financing, and the conflicts between equity and debt stakeholders.#
&MGMT 5830 | Investments&
#A broad overview of various aspects of the Investment Industry. Topics, amongst others, will include: Overview of investment management industry, portfolio theory & practice, capital markets, fixed income, equities and security analysis, options, futures & other derivatives, and applied portfolio management. The instructor is the CEO of a Rochester-based company and Managing Partner at a local venture capital firm, and former Chief Investment Officer of the Cornell University endowment.  As such, the course will focus on real world applications.  Course Goal: (1) to provide you with an understanding of how modern capital markets operate from a practical, real-life perspective (2) to help you think critically about issues effecting the investment management industry, and (3) to have fun and instill a passion in some of you for future study and/or work in the investment management industry.  Prerequisites: No specific courses required. Curiosity and a genuine interest in investment management a plus.  A basic understanding of business statistics will be helpful but not required.  Required Readings:  (1) Investments (12th Edition) by Bodie Kane & Marcus;  (2) Articles posted to Canvas;  (3) Students will be asked to read the Wall Street Journal (daily reading is a good habit to get into), but at a minimum the day before and day of each class.#
&MGMT 6030 | Strategies for Sustainability&
#Corporations are under increasing pressure from shareholders, employees, communities, and activists to account for the environmental and social effects that their activities create. Increasingly, firms are taking strategic approach to addressing these issues, developing programs that fit their capabilities, resources, and cultures. Through a combination of cases, readings, lectures, and videos, class sessions will ensure students develop an understanding of sustainability in the context of business as well as strategic business decision-making in the context of sustainability.#


$MILS | Military Science$
&MILS 1102 | Foundations in Leadership&
#MS1102 introduces students to the personal challenges and competencies that are critical for effective leadership. Students learn how the personal development of life skills such as critical thinking, time management, goal setting, and communication. Students learn the basics of the communications process and the importance for leader's to develop the essential skills to effectively communicate in the Army.  Students will begin learning the basics of squad level tactics.#
&MILS 1111 | Leadership Laboratory I&
#MILS I cadets meet for eight hours each month to learn a variety of military skills including rappelling, first aid, drill and ceremonies, weapons familiarization, physical fitness training, and small group leadership.#
&MILS 2202 | Army Doctrine and Decision Making&
#This course focuses on Army doctrine and decision making. The course begins with analytical techniques, creative thinking skills and the Army problem solving process as related to situations faced by leaders when making decisions. TLPs and Operations Orders (OPORD) will lead Cadets to an understanding of Army Doctrine and Symbology.  Squad tactics will be covered in classes on Multi-Domain Operations, Offensive Operations and Defensive Operations.#
&MILS 2211 | Leadership Laboratory II&
#Cadets meet for eight hours each month as members of the cadet organization to participate in practical leadership exercises. Types of practical activities include rifle marksmanship, orienteering, drill and ceremonies, signal communications, physical fitness training, first aid, tactics, field exercises, and small group leadership.#
&MILS 3302 | Applied Leadership in Small Unit Operations&
#MSL3302 balances adaptability and professional competence building on the lessons introduced in MSL301. Various platoon operations are stressed in order to familiarize Cadets with material they can expect to execute during Cadet Summer Training. Adaptability concepts introduced include analysis of complex problems, creating solutions that exhibit agile and adaptive thinking, analysis of the situational environment, and formulation of solutions to tactical and organizational problems. This is an academically challenging course where you will study, practice, and apply the fundamentals of Army Leadership, Officership, Army Values and Ethics, Personal Development, and small unit tactics at the platoon level. At the conclusion of this course, you will be capable of planning, coordinating, navigating, motivating, and leading a squad or platoon in the execution of a mission. You will be required to write peer evaluations and receive feedback on your abilities as a leader and how to improve those leader skills that will further develop you as a successful officer. You will receive systematic and specific feedback on your leader attributes, values, and core leader competencies from your instructor, other ROTC cadre, and MSL IV Cadets who will evaluate you using the Cadet Officer Evaluation System.#
&MILS 3311 | Leadership Laboratory III&
#Cadets meet for eight hours each month to prepare for a five-week summer camp that follows their junior year. Emphasis is placed on the development of individual practical and leadership skills. Cadets rotate through leadership positions to practice applying decision-making skills in a myriad of situations.#
&MILS 4400 | Special Problems for Advanced Undergraduates&
#Individual investigation, research, studies, or surveys of selected problems that allow contracted ROTC Cadets to design a course of study to investigate selected topics in military science more completely.#
&MILS 4402 | Company Grade Leadership&
#This course is an academically challenging course where you will develop knowledge, skills, and abilities required of junior officers pertaining to the Army in Multi-Domain Operations and Company Grade Officer roles and responsibilities. This course includes reading assignments, homework assignments, small group assignments, briefings, case studies, practical exercises, a mid-term exam, and an Oral Practicum as the final exam. Successful completion of this course will assist in preparing you for your BOLC B course and is a mandatory requirement for commissioning.#
&MILS 4411 | Leadership Laboratory IV&
#Senior cadets plan and operate the leadership laboratory programs for MILS I-III cadets. The development of planning and supervisory skills is emphasized. Cadets have an opportunity to practice leadership skills developed during previous ROTC training and summer camp experiences. Includes two to three hours a week devoted to physical fitness.#


$MSE | Materials Science & Engineering$
&MSE 2060 | Atomic and Molecular Structure of Matter&
#This course covers the atomic and molecular structure of crystalline and noncrystalline materials as well as selected analytical techniques for structural interrogation. Selected topics include, basic elements of structure; order and disorder; crystals; semicrystalline materials; amorphous materials; molecular materials; x-ray diffraction; small angle x-ray scattering.#
&MSE 2620 | Electronic Materials for the Information Age&
#Examines the electrical and optical properties of materials. Topics include the mechanism of electrical conduction in metals, semiconductors and insulators; tuning of electrical properties in semiconductors, charge transport across metal/semiconductor and semiconductor/semiconductor junctions, and the interaction of materials with light; semiconductor electronic devices; and the materials science of device fabrication. Applications in microelectronics, solar cells, electronics, and display technologies are discussed. Semiweekly labs provide hands-on experience characterizing electronic materials and devices.#
&MSE 2900 | Special Projects in Materials Science and Engineering&
#This course is intended for an individual student, or small group of students, to pursue a particular project, analytical investigation, or experimental investigation outside of regular courses. The course may also be used for formal or informal instruction supplementing regular courses in the major. Students taking the course must obtain approval from an MSE field member who will be responsible for supervising and evaluating the project work.#
&MSE 2920 | Research Involvement IIb&
#Supervised independent research project in association with faculty members and faculty research groups of the department. Students design experiments, set up the necessary equipment, and evaluate the results. Creativity and synthesis are emphasized. Each semester may be taken as a continuation of a previous project or as a one-semester affiliation with a research group.#
&MSE 3040 | Kinetics, Diffusion, and Phase Transformations&
#Phenomenological and atomistic theories of diffusion in metals, alloys, ionic compounds, semiconductors and polymers. Introduction to general transport theory and non-equilibrium thermodynamics. Kinetic effects in solidification and solid state transformations that determine structure and properties of materials including: interfaces and microstructure; nucleation, growth and coarsening; alloy solidification; and diffusional and diffusionless transformations in solids.#
&MSE 3070 | Materials Design Concepts I&
#Introduces design in the context of real-world materials challenges as explored through reverse engineering. Students examine the materials, design, and cost constraints of a variety of technological products and the solutions commercially implemented. Analytical methods for materials testing and characterization are also introduced as part of the evaluation process. Students work in groups to develop a research plan, characterize materials, and report results. Exercises to develop technical writing and oral presentation skills are integrated throughout the course.#
&MSE 3120 | Junior Laboratory II&
#Practical laboratory covering the characterization of material, analysis of data, and proper presentation of results. Labs are based on materials from courses in kinetics, diffusion and phase transformations (MSE 3040) and electronic, magnetic and dielectric properties (MSE 3050). Experiments include spectroscopic determination of a diffusion constants, thin film growth kinetics, anisotropic resistivity in polycrystalline materials, and characterization of magnetic properties. Data analysis is extended to include experimental design, use of custom model equations, and precision measurement techniques. Includes also continued development of technical writing skills.#
&MSE 3900 | Special Projects in Materials Science and Engineering&
#This course is intended for an individual student, or small group of students, to pursue a particular project, analytical investigation, or experimental investigation outside of regular courses. The course may also be used for formal or informal instruction supplementing regular courses in the major. Students taking the course must obtain approval from an MSE field member who will be responsible for supervising and evaluating the project work. Course may normally be used only as an advisor approved elective within the MSE curriculum.#
&MSE 3920 | Research Involvement IIIb&
#Supervised independent research project in association with faculty members and faculty research groups of the department. Students design experiments, set up the necessary equipment, and evaluate the results. Creativity and synthesis are emphasized. Each semester may be taken as a continuation of a previous project or as a one-semester affiliation with a research group.#
&MSE 4060 | Senior Experimental Thesis II&
#Second semester of two-semester senior thesis sequence. See MSE 4050 for thesis project requirements. Continued research in individual faculty groups with periodic oral and written updates. In class discussion of communication strategies and development of presentation skills. Final thesis will be presented in a formal conference style with (i) oral presentation, (ii) poster session and (iii) conference manuscript. Completion of both 4050 and 4060 required to satisfy senior laboratory requirement for graduation, and is required for graduation with honors.#
&MSE 4070 | Materials Design Concepts II&
#This course emphasizes entrepreneurial driven materials enabled designed through the understanding of early stage product development complexities. These complexities include staging invention and innovation via the critical selection of materials for final product function, performance, reliability, cost, and technical marketability. Students will expand on their foundational materials design understanding (MSE 3070 prerequisite) through attending lectures, participating in a team based "hands on" design "startups", attend startup design reviews, give a series of individual/group presentations, and wrtie a startup issue paper. The Tech Startup is integrated into the SC Johnson College of Business (SCJCoB) MBA candidate-mentoring program.#
&MSE 4900 | Special Projects in Materials Science and Engineering&
#This course is intended for an individual student, or small group of students, to pursue a particular project, analytical investigation, or experimental investigation outside of regular courses. The course may also be used for formal or informal instruction supplementing regular courses in the major. Students taking the course must obtain approval from an MSE field member who will be responsible for supervising and evaluating the project work. Course may normally be used only as an advisor approved elective within the MSE curriculum.#
&MSE 4920 | Research Involvement IVb&
#Supervised independent research project in association with faculty members and faculty research groups of the department. Students design experiments, set up the necessary equipment, and evaluate the results. Creativity and synthesis are emphasized. Each semester may be taken as a continuation of a previous project or as a one-semester affiliation with a research group. May be continuation or a one-semester affiliation with a research group.#
&MSE 4950 | Undergraduate Teaching Involvement&
#Gives credit to students who help in the laboratory portions of select MSE courses. The number of credits earned is determined by the teaching load and is typically 1-3.#
&MSE 5005 | MSE MEng Professional Development&
#Development of leadership skills and application to problem solving, forming and working on teams, project management, and networking. Development of graphical, verbal, and written communication skills. Effective technical project presentations. Professional portfolio development and marketing. Interpersonal skills and effective group behavior. Corporate, academic, and other cultures.  Ethics in professional practice. Personal goal setting and progress metrics.#
&MSE 5010 | MEng Project - Ongoing&
#Master of Engineering research project. Integration of technical, teamwork, and leadership skills to achieve a specific technical project goal defined by a project sponsor. MSE 5010 is for students who intend to complete their project in a later semester. Accordingly, success in MSE 5010 will be measured by progress against defined project goals. Students planning to complete course requirements in the current term should take MSE 5011.#
&MSE 5011 | MEng Project - Terminal&
#Master of Engineering research project. Integration of technical, teamwork, and leadership skills to achieve a specific technical project goal defined by a project sponsor. MSE 5011 is for students who intend to complete their project in the current semester. Accordingly, success in MSE 5011 will be measured by successful completion of all final project deliverables. Students planning to complete course requirements in a later term should take MSE 5010.#
&MSE 5235 | Design of Soft Materials&
#Soft materials have unique properties, exploited widely by nature and industry. They are made from a variety of building blocks, including small molecules, macromolecules, and particles. These basic constituents can be arranged into a vast range of microstructures that determine their macroscopic material properties. This course will explore this broad material space, identify unifying scientific ideas, and explore practical strategies for their design. A top-down approach, which emphasizes their macroscopic behavior, will be combined with a bottom-up approach, that describes their microscopic structure and dynamics.#
&MSE 5240 | Synthesis of Polymeric Materials&
#Advanced course covering synthesis of high molecular weight polymers and their structure-property tradeoffs. Introduction to basic physical characterization and the influence of molecular weight, molecular design and polymer architecture on properties and applications. Review of modern synthesis tools and strategies. Polymer families to be considered include: opto-electronic polymers, photopolymers, liquid crystal polymers, block polymers, biomimetic polymers, and common synthetic polymers. Synthesis tools include: step growth polymerization, chain growth polymerization, living polymerization and biosynthesis.#
&MSE 5340 | Particulate Science and Engineering: Fundamentals and Applications&
#This survey course is designed for senior undergraduates and graduate students in the fields of MSE, CBE, and MAE. Previous experience in particulate systems is not required. The course will focus on recent advances in particulate science and engineering (PSE) and its applications, which are relevant to particulate systems in various product applications. Lectures will draw from state-of-the-art research and industrial practice. Review of phenomenological modelling and numerical simulation methods focusing on discrete element method (DEM), and Finite Element Modelling (FEM). Students will participate in assigned group projects.#
&MSE 5411 | Nanofabrication and Characterization of Electronics Laboratory&
#This course provides an introduction to nanofabrication technologies with emphasis on Si-based integrated circuits manufacturing as well as modern electronics based on GaN, 2D materials etc. The lab, primarily taught in the Cornell Teaching Cleanroom, includes basic fabrication steps of lithography, metallization, plasma etching and annealing. A series of devices will be fabricated: solar cells, MOS capacitors and transistors, 2D transistors, GaN HEMTs and LEDs.#
&MSE 5430 | Thin-Film Materials Science&
#Provides fundamental information on the deposition, properties, reaction, and evaluation of thin films.#
&MSE 5440 | Soap Bubbles, Snowflakes, and Steps: Interfacial and Surface Phenomena in Materials Science&
#Surface and interface phenomena play a critical role in the processing and performance of advanced materials. Students and the instructor will identify topics of joint interest that build on the fundamentals of surfaces and interfaces contained in the core materials science curriculum (diffusion and growth, surface structure and energy, adhesion, etc.) and that address phenomena such as interfacial electronic states, gas adsorption at surfaces and surface forces in air and liquid. Course content will be organized collaboratively with necessary background provided in lectures and readings, and with students contributing oral presentations and student-led active learning exercises.#
&MSE 5620 | Biomineralization: The Formation and Properties of Inorganic Biomaterials&
#This course will examine the wide variety of mineralized materials made by biological organisms including mollusk shells, sea urchins, mammalian bone and teeth, siliaceous sponges and diatoms, and magnetotactic bacteria. The focus will be on the molecular and biological mechanisms that lead to the formation of these materials as well as their unique mechanical, optical and optical properties.#
&MSE 5802 | Materials Structure and Mechanical Properties&
#Course is intended for first year graduate students in MSE, or graduate students in other fields, needing a solid foundation in the relationships between structure and mechanical properties in materials for advanced study and research. Microscopic structure of crystalline, molecular, amorphous and ordered non-crystalline solids, including point, line, and planar defects, twinning, and martensitic and pressure induced phase transformations. Mechanical properties of materials including: Use of tensors to describe stress, strain, and elastic constants, time-dependent elastic (anelastic) and plastic (creep) behavior, viscoelasticity, strengthening mechanisms, ductility, and toughness. Macroscopic mechanical properties are described in terms of atom-level mechanisms of elasticity, plasticity, and fracture.#
&MSE 5840 | Kinetics, Diffusion, and Phase Transformation&
#Phenomenological and atomistic theories of diffusion in metals, alloys, ionic compounds, semiconductors and polymers. Introduction to general transport theory and non-equilibrium thermodynamics. Kinetic effects in solidification and solid state transformations that determine structure and properties of materials including: interfaces and microstructure; nucleation, growth and coarsening; alloy solidification; and diffusional and diffusionless transformations in solids.#
&MSE 6010 | Chemistry of Materials&
#Chemistry of materials with an emphasis on concepts of general applicability and modern developments in the materials field. The transition from atoms to molecules is developed by applying group theoretical approaches to chemical bonding, from molecules to materials by applying thermodynamic principles to self-assembly, and then to underpin these transitions with examples from the chemistry of low dimensional nanomaterials, sol-gel derived materials, surfactant and block copolymer self-assembly, mesoporous solids, and hierarchical materials. Throughout the course, examples from the current literature are discussed to familiarize students with the state-of-the-art in the field.#
&MSE 6030 | Thermodynamics of Materials&
#This course aims to provide a comprehensive understanding on the concepts of statistical thermodynamics in materials science and engineering. Topics include fundamental statistical thermodynamics concepts such as ensembles, partition functions, distribution functions, free energies, and applications in gases, vibrations, electrons, phase transitions, alloys, surfaces, and defects. Emphasis will be placed on the fundamental governing principles and their applications to phenomena in materials.#
&MSE 6050 | Physics of Semiconductors and Nanostructures&
#Covers basic solid state and semiconductor physics relevant for understanding electronic and optical devices. Topics include crystalline structures, bonding in atoms and solids, energy bands in solids, electron statistics and dynamics in energy bands, effective mass equation, carrier transport in solids, Boltzmann transport equation, semiconductor homo- and hetero-junctions, optical processes in semiconductors, electronic and optical properties of semiconductor nanostructures, semiconductor quantum wells, wires, and dots, electron transport in reduced dimensions, semiconductor lasers and optoelectronics, high-frequency response of electrons in solids and plasmons.#
&MSE 7930 | Peer Mentoring and Leadership Essentials&
#This course develops fundamental communication, coaching, mentorship and leadership skills for PhD students.  It is designed specifically for PhD mentors in the Ezra's Bridge program; however, the course is appropriate for all PhD students who wish to be more effective lab members and leaders.#
&MSE 8000 | Research in Materials Science&
#Independent research in materials science under the guidance of a member of the staff.#
&MSE 8010 | Materials Science and Engineering Colloquium&
#Lectures by visiting scientists, Cornell staff members, and graduate students on subjects of interest in materials sciences, especially in connection with new research.#
&MSE 8020 | Materials Science Research Group Seminars&
#Short presentations on research in progress by students and staff.#


$MUSIC | Music$
&MUSIC 1100 | Elements of Musical Notation&
#This four-week course fulfills the requirement of basic pitch, rhythm, and score-reading skills needed for some introductory courses and 2000-level courses with prerequisites.#
&MUSIC 1105 | Building Musical Skills&
#This course is designed to develop and strengthen your fundamental musical skills through embodied music interaction. You will compose, improvise, listen, and perform. You will use fundamental musical materials such as chords, melodies, and rhythms, and learn to notate music with accepted systems and describe it with appropriate terminologies. Using your voice, the keyboard, and other instruments, you will stimulate your creativity, refine your listening skills, and put your ideas into practice. The course will address music-making from a diverse set of cultures and traditions, and the skills you acquire will be transferrable to a wide range of applications.#
&MUSIC 1212 | Music on the Brain&
#This course is for anyone who listens to music or plays music and wonders what's happening in your brain that makes you feel the way you do. Starting with the music each of you knows and loves—the soundtrack to your life—we'll tackle questions like: What is the relationship between speech and music? Do animals have music, too? How does the brain process aspects of music, including rhythm, melody, harmony, and form? Why does some music trigger an emotional response? What does it mean to say that music is an embodied behavioral act? What is the relationship between music and memory? Through lectures, discussions, experiments, compositions, recording technologies, student presentations/performances and writing assignments we'll explore how/why you've chosen the particular tunes on the soundtrack of your life, and how your brain processes musical thoughts and experiences.#
&MUSIC 1213 | Music on the Brain Field Study– Whale Conservation: Marine Stewardship in Cape Cod Bay&
#This course provides students with the opportunity to devote their Spring Break to a marine conservation effort on Cape Cod. The class will travel to Provincetown, Massachusetts to collaborate with the Center for Coastal Studies (CCS) on their annual Outer Cape Clean Up and Ghost Gear Removal Program. Students will learn about acoustic communication in marine mammals and participate in a deep exploration of marine habitat and anthropogenic environmental impact as part of a community-engaged experience. Students will work with CCS on a coordinated debris clean up effort; learn from CCS scientists, conservationists, and commercial fishermen about the complex network of issues impacting marine conservation on Cape Cod; and ultimately collaborate on a multi-media creative intervention to share with the public.#
&MUSIC 1312 | History of Rock Music&
#This course examines the development and cultural significance of rock music from its origins in blues, gospel, and Tin Pan Alley up to alternative rock and hip hop. The course concludes with the year 2000.#
&MUSIC 1701 | FWS: Sound, Sense and Ideas&
#This First-Year Writing seminar provides the opportunity to write extensively about music's place in our world. Topics vary by section.#
&MUSIC 2102 | Tonal Structure and Design in Classical, Jazz, and Popular Music II&
#Theory, Materials, and Techniques II surveys tonal music as conceived and practiced throughout late-eighteenth and nineteenth-century Europe. The course combines modern pedagogical methods with the study of relevant historical sources and incorporates active learning at the keyboard. Topics to be covered include the analysis of form and genre; advanced techniques of modulation; transformational theory and other approaches to the configuration of diatonicism and chromaticism; and the relationship of words and music in nineteenth-century song. During section meetings, the concepts and skills introduced in lecture will be practiced at the keyboard as well as vocally. Other topics to be covered in sections include advanced aural skills; sight singing; score reading; and the improvisation of preludes.#
&MUSIC 2112 | Collaborative Songwriting&
#Collaborative Songwriting introduces students to the practice of songwriting through workshop-formatted classes. We will explore the ingredients of song (lyrics, melody, delivery, harmony, rhythm, form, texture, timbre, and arrangement) in diverse collaborative contexts through analysis, composition, recording technologies, performance, and concert reports. Proficiency on one or more musical instruments is required. Collaborative Songwriting can be taken as a stand-alone course or as part of the Songwriting sequence.#
&MUSIC 2201 | Introduction to Music Studies&
#This course introduces students to the study of music as an expression of history and culture by examining the ways in which music creates meaning, knowledge, archives, and identities. Musical examples will be drawn from a broad range of styles, chronological periods, and geographical locations; and students will engage with live performance as well as various forms of recorded music and mediated performance.  Along with considering music as sound, the course will examine different modalities of writing about music—journalistic, academic, and creative—and we will think about how these musical texts, and those that the students produce, function to situate music as discourse. The course will develop critical thinking, writing, and presentation skills.#
&MUSIC 2361 | Arranging Nationhood–Reclaiming Identity: Caribbean Folk Albums in the USA&
#This course explores how first-generation American and immigrant musicians from the Caribbean and Latin America arranged and commodified the folk music of their countries for audiences in the United States. Whether for entertainment, as political protest, or as a way to understand themselves, artists like Harry Belafonte and Franz Casseus in the 1950s to Nathalie Joachim and Layla McCalla in recent years embraced the music of Haiti, Jamaica, and Trinidad for musical inspiration. We will first consider the nature of folk music as a repository for cultural heritage and then examine its relationship to other genres of music. We will listen to many albums and compose our own folk arrangements. Other course themes will include: transnationalism, hybridity, commercialism, cultural appropriation and social justice.#
&MUSIC 2380 | Performing Hip Hop&
#This course is a hybrid seminar/performance forum that combines scholarly exploration of hip hop musical aesthetics with applied performance. Students will engage in online and in-class discussions of hip hop musical aesthetics, contextualized historically, socially, and culturally through weekly reading and listening assignments. They will also devote significant time to creating and workshopping individual and collaborative musical projects. Formal musical training is not required, but students should have experience making music (instrumentalists, beat makers, lyricists, vocalists, beatboxers, etc.), and should have at least a basic familiarity with hip hop music. Students who wish to enroll in the course should contact the professor for more information.#
&MUSIC 2703 | Thinking Media&
#For description, see GERST 2703.#
&MUSIC 3313 | Pianos, Nations, and Empires&
#Outside of its native West, how and why have people made the piano theirs? This course will investigate how the piano (and its associated Western musical systems) have functioned culturally and politically amidst various and shifting notions of modernity and national identity across the Global South. Included in this broad survey are 20th-century developments from sub-Saharan Africa, Southwest Asia and North Africa, South and East Asia, as well as excursions into the Americas.#
&MUSIC 3370 | Listening for Blackness: Sound, Noise, Music&
#This course will examine how theorists, scientists, artists, and other audiences ask questions of sound and questions of blackness, as well as what those questions reveal about the listener. We will also consider how everyday practices of sounding and listening for blackness challenge and undermine preconceived notions of race, gender, sexuality, and individuality. The intention of this course is for students to develop a better understanding of how sound shapes our experience and understanding of the world. The course is interdisciplinary; we will draw on black studies and sound studies approaches to sound, speech, aurality, and musicality from contemporary and historical moments.#
&MUSIC 3431 | Sound Design&
#Covering the basics of digital audio, bioacoustics, psychoacoustics and sound design, as they apply to theatre, film and music production. Students create soundscapes for text and moving image using ProTools software.#
&MUSIC 3511 | Individual Instruction&
#Individual instruction in voice, organ, harpsichord, piano and fortepiano, violin, viola, cello, percussion, and some brass and woodwind instruments to those students advanced enough to do college-level work in these instruments. For more information about individual instruction, see the section titled Musical Instruction.#
&MUSIC 3513 | Individual Instruction&
#Individual instruction in voice, organ, harpsichord, piano and fortepiano, violin, viola, cello, percussion, and some brass and woodwind instruments to those students advanced enough to do college-level work in these instruments. For more information about individual instruction, see the section titled Musical Instruction.#
&MUSIC 3514 | Individual Instruction&
#Individual instruction in voice, organ, harpsichord, piano and fortepiano, violin, viola, cello, percussion, and some brass and woodwind instruments to those students advanced enough to do college-level work in these instruments. For more information about individual instruction, see the section titled Musical Instruction.#
&MUSIC 3602 | Chorus&
#A nationally renowned choral ensemble and vibrant student-driven organization specializing in repertoire for sopranos and altos. Collaborates frequently with the Glee Club to present mixed-voice repertoire and major works. Maintains a rigorous rehearsal and concert schedule and performs a wide variety of choral repertoire from throughout history and across the globe. Tours and records annually.#
&MUSIC 3603 | Glee Club&
#A nationally renowned choral ensemble and vibrant student-driven organization specializing in repertoire for tenors and basses. Collaborates frequently with the Chorus to present mixed-voice repertoire and major works. Maintains a rigorous rehearsal and concert schedule and performs a wide variety of choral repertoire from throughout history and across the globe. Tours and records annually.#
&MUSIC 3604 | Chorale&
#This course provides comprehensive training designed for singers to enhance their musical skills, sight-reading abilities, and vocal technique. The Chorale functions as a performing group with a strong emphasis on cultivating vital proficiencies to an advanced standard, equipping students with the requisite musical groundwork essential for a lifelong in choral music. Open to Cornell's undergraduate and graduate students, faculty and staff members who share a passion for singing, the Chorale invites participation. An expedited audition process is mandatory to assess suitable ensemble placement.#
&MUSIC 3609 | Brazilian Ensemble - Deixa Sambar&
#Deixa Sambar performs several styles of samba, Brazil's national music. Members need not have prior background in music-making, but a good sense of rhythm is desirable. Members include students as well as Ithaca community members, brasileiros as well as newcomers to Brazilian culture. Rehearsals develop playing skills, with a deep emphasis on cultural understanding of this vital, community-based music.#
&MUSIC 3610 | Cornell Gamelan Ensemble&
#Study and performance of Central Javanese gamelan, the best known traditional music of Indonesia. For more information see https://blogs.cornell.edu/gamelan/.#
&MUSIC 3616 | Cornell Hip-Hop Collective&
#This course is open to experienced rappers, beatmakers, and vocalists interested forging collaborative relationships with other students. Taking as a foundation hip-hop's relationship to social justice, each semester we will work together to plan and record an EP on a theme or keyword chosen as a group. We will construct and analyze playlists of inspirational material, identifying specific hip-hop compositional strategies for creating beats and rhymes on a theme, and will use these tools to create and workshop our own collaborative tracks in weekly meetings. Please contact the instructor to audition.#
&MUSIC 3621 | Cornell Symphony Orchestra&
#The Cornell Symphony Orchestra provides its members the opportunity to develop their artistry and enhance their knowledge of orchestral repertoire in a dynamic and engaging environment.  Students perform a variety of repertoire that encompasses from the baroque to the 21st century through a range of symphonic activities: orchestral performances, composer and repertoire readings, educational and community outreach events, tours, and collaborations with faculty and guest artists.#
&MUSIC 3631 | Cornell Wind Symphony&
#The Cornell Wind Symphony unites student musicians in an ensemble dedicated to the study and performance of emerging and traditional wind repertoire.  The Cornell Wind Symphony unites student musicians in an ensemble dedicated to the study and performance of emerging and traditional wind repertoire. In Spring 2021, the Wind Symphony will likely make music in both in-person and remote settings. Full details and audition instructions will be posted on www.cuwinds.com as they become available.#
&MUSIC 3634 | Cornell Percussion Group&
#The Cornell Percussion Ensemble studies and performs conducted and un-conducted percussion chamber music from the rapidly expanding repertoire. Utilizing the stylistic and sonic variety that is unique to the medium, the ensemble performs a variety of composers and styles, including pieces composed within the past few years. Members of the ensemble will develop strategic listening and communication techniques through the study of chamber music while advancing their interpretative and technical skills. The ensemble performs mostly notated music, and players should have experience with reading advanced music notation. Prior experience with percussion instruments is required, and participants must meet with the instructor for a short audition before enrolling.#
&MUSIC 3901 | Supplemental Study in Music&
#Intended primarily for music majors, this option allows students enrolled in an approved 1000- or 2000-level 3-credit music history course to pursue independent research and writing projects. Students will study various topics in music history at a more advanced level through supplementary reading, discussion, and writing, by arrangement with the professor.#
&MUSIC 3902 | Choral Musicianship&
#Co-requisite for new Cornell Chorus and Glee Club members, based on audition, and open to all students regardless of participation in an ensemble. This course provides a comprehensive perspective of choral music designed for singers to enhance their musical skills, foundational and advanced approaches for sight-reading abilities, aural skills, vocal technique, and appreciation of different styles of choral music. Recommended for singers at all levels wishing to improve musicianship skills.#
&MUSIC 4121 | Advanced Conducting&
#This course is designed to build on topics covered in The Art of Conducting (MUSIC 3122) and introduce concepts related to score study, rehearsal techniques, and advanced nonverbal communication. Competency with traditional beat patterns, a fundamental vocabulary of gestures, and the ability to read staff notation are assumed. Students will conduct orchestral, band, choral, and mixed chamber ensembles.#
&MUSIC 4124 | Jazz Arranging and Orchestration&
#A study of arranging, composition, and orchestration technique by Duke Ellington, Count Basie, Sammy Nestico, Thad Jones, Horace Silver, and various members of Art Blakey's Jazz Messengers. Work consists of three substantial arrangements for small, medium, and large ensemble with bi-weekly assignments. Arrangements are recorded by members of the jazz ensemble and submitted as a portfolio at the end of the semester.#
&MUSIC 4313 | Music and Sound Studies&
#This seminar serves as a rigorous introduction to the scholarly study of music and sound. We will read classic books and articles as well as more recent influential contributions, concentrating on scholarship in ethnomusicology, historical musicology, and sound studies. We will seek to understand how scholars have analyzed musical works of art, social practices of music making, and cultures of listening in different historical periods and in different parts of the world. Our goal will be to develop a general understanding of the current state of the field.#
&MUSIC 4421 | Technology in Music Performance&
#A course on strategies and techniques for live musical performance with technology, including multimedia: image, video, movement, and sound. In developing our awareness of tools for live music with various media, we will explore several stylistic, technical, and logistical approaches, including collaboration and ensemble. We will engage with an array of software and hardware combinations within a variety of performance spaces, seeking to both understand and subvert standard practices for our own creative purposes.#
&MUSIC 4501 | Individual Instruction&
#Individual instruction in voice, organ, harpsichord, piano and fortepiano, violin, viola, cello, percussion, and some brass and woodwind instruments to those students advanced enough to do college-level work in these instruments. For more information about individual instruction, see the section titled Musical Instruction.#
&MUSIC 4615 | Jazz Ensemble&
#Study and performance of classic and contemporary big band literature. Rehearsals twice a week with two to four performances per semester.#
&MUSIC 4616 | Jazz Combo&
#Study and performance of classic and contemporary small-group jazz.#
&MUSIC 4621 | Cornell Chamber Orchestra&
#The Cornell Chamber Orchestra provides its members the opportunity to develop their artistry and enhance their knowledge of chamber orchestra and string repertoire in a dynamic and engaging environment.  Students perform a variety of repertoire that encompasses works from the baroque to the 21st century through a range of activities: chamber performances, composer and repertoire readings, educational and community outreach activities, tours, and collaborations with faculty and guest artists.#
&MUSIC 4631 | Chamber Flute Ensemble&
#Small ensembles meet weekly to explore diverse flute repertoire including a variety of instrumentation (piccolo, alto flute, bass flute).  There will be a performance opportunity at the end of the semester on a chamber concert or in a studio class setting.#
&MUSIC 4641 | Advanced Instruction in Gamelan&
#Concentrated instruction for students in advanced techniques of performance on Indonesian gamelan instruments.#
&MUSIC 4651 | Chamber Music Ensemble&
#Study and performance of chamber music works from duos to octets, for all instruments and voice. Students will be expected to attend a one hour coaching each week and rehearse on their own as well.  There will be a final performance at the end of the semester and possible additional performance opportunities.#
&MUSIC 4901 | Independent Study in Music&
#Independent study affords students the opportunity to pursue special interests or research not treated in regularly scheduled courses. A faculty member, who becomes the student's instructor for the independent course, must approve the proposed study and agree to provide continuing supervision of the work. Students must prepare a proposal for independent study. To apply for independent study, please complete the online form.  Undergraduate student and faculty advisor to determine course of study and credit hours.#
&MUSIC 4912 | Honors in Music&
#Second semester of the two semester honors program. In conjunction with faculty, selected candidates formulate a program that allows them to demonstrate their musical and scholarly abilities, culminating in an honors thesis, composition, or recital (or some combination of these), to be presented in their senior year.#
&MUSIC 6313 | Music and Sound Studies&
#This seminar serves as a rigorous introduction to the scholarly study of music and sound. We will read classic books and articles as well as more recent influential contributions, concentrating on scholarship in ethnomusicology, historical musicology, and sound studies. We will seek to understand how scholars have analyzed musical works of art, social practices of music making, and cultures of listening in different historical periods and in different parts of the world. Our goal will be to develop a general understanding of the current state of the field.#
&MUSIC 6400 | Thinking Media Studies&
#This required seminar for the new graduate minor in media studies considers media from a wide number of perspectives, ranging from the methods of cinema and television studies to those of music, information science, communication, science and technology studies, and beyond. Historical and theoretical approaches to media are intertwined with meta-critical reflections on media studies as an interdisciplinary field of inquiry. Close attention will be paid to media's role in shaping and being shaped by race, ethnicity, class, gender, sexuality, and other politically constructed categories of identity and sociality.#
&MUSIC 6422 | Technology in Music Performance&
#A course on strategies and techniques for live musical performance with technology, including multimedia: image, video, movement, and sound. In developing our awareness of tools for live music with various media, we will explore several stylistic, technical, and logistical approaches, including collaboration and ensemble. We will engage with an array of software and hardware combinations within a variety of performance spaces, seeking to both understand and subvert standard practices for our own creative purposes.#
&MUSIC 7104 | History of Music Theory: Global Approaches and Perspectives&
#Across countless geographically and temporally distinct cultures, people have developed accounts of musical materials and techniques: what they believe music is, what it is made of, and how. People have also marveled at—and sought to comprehend—music's mysterious power to affect us, and have offered speculative theories and practical pedagogies in response. This course offers an introduction to some influential ideas, practices, and traditions of theorizing music, broadly construed, in various world cultures at distinct moments.#
&MUSIC 7111 | Composition&
#A course for graduate or advanced undergraduate composers (by permission with a portfolio audition) seeking individual music composition instruction, the course combines one-on-one meetings with group seminars featuring workshops, master classes, and/or visiting guests. In addition to individual and group meetings, composers may have opportunities for the reading and/or performance of their work.#
&MUSIC 7308 | Sounding the Apocalypse: Ecomusicology from the Enlightenment to the Anthropocene&
#We will read groundbreaking scholarly and public-facing texts in the relatively new field of Ecomusicology, a sub-discipline that considers musical practices and ideologies in relation to their environments. The course challenges long-held claims for music as an autonomous enterprise distinct from nature and investigates the status of music as an evocation of landscape, weather, birdsong, and as a mode of nostalgia, alienation and resistance. Systems of production (music printing and dissemination, instrument fabrication, modes of recorded sound and delivery) will be considered along with other technological and moral aspects of music making and consumption. What are the possible purposes of sonic creativity in an age of environmental apocalypse? Locally oriented research projects and artistic collaborations will be fostered.#
&MUSIC 7314 | (Black-Queer-Feminist) Ethics of Listening&
#This course will explore modes of listening across a wide variety of musical genres and traditions, past and present, considering the ways people hear music differently in a broad range of contexts. Students will reflect critically on their own listening paradigms, on the assumptions and preconceptions that affect how we translate what we hear into feeling and knowing, and on the stakes of those translations. The intention of the course is to develop our critical awareness of the power and politics involved in both everyday listening practices and listening as a "scientific" ethnographic method. Centering a black queer ethic of care, the course will bring together key texts from Black feminist musicologists, cultural theorists, and ethnographers in order to help cultivate an ethic for listening as carework. Attending the power dynamics of listening both in the archive and in the field, participation in this course will be grounded in students' individual objects and sites of study.#
&MUSIC 7901 | Independent Study in Music&
#Independent study affords students the opportunity to pursue special interests or research not treated in regularly scheduled courses. A faculty member, who becomes the student's instructor for the independent course, must approve the proposed study and agree to provide continuing supervision of the work.#


$NACCT | Graduate Management Accounting$
&NACCT 5521 | Cost Accounting&
#Cost Accounting and Management Control is a senior seminar focused on managerial decision making and uses of internal accounting data (i.e., revenue and costs; incentive contracts; forecasts; etc.). You will integrate knowledge acquired in your undergraduate accounting courses with that from other courses, readings from current academic and professional literature, and related articles to sharpen skills related to cost assessment, performance evaluation, and managerial control. This course is designed to explicitly consider the role of uncertainty and other statistical issues when making corporate decisions. For the most part, this course is a "selected topics" course; focusing on topics intimately related with managerial decision making.#
&NACCT 5532 | Fraud Examination&
#Fraud Examination is a senior seminar designed to allow you access to theories of fraud examination, to develop an understanding of the fraud examination process, and to provide a background in fraud-related issues.#
&NACCT 5545 | Special Topics in Financial Reporting&
#No description available.#


$NAVS | Naval Science$
&NAVS 1102 | Sea Power and Maritime Affairs&
#Discussions examine the history of the Navy as a force in diplomacy and an instrument of U.S. foreign policy. Relationships between Congress and the military for determining the national defense policy are also explored. An integrated examination of current events and issues lends historical perspective throughout the course.#
&NAVS 1142 | Naval Professional Laboratory&
#All students in the program participate in a two-hour professional development session each week. The session is held from 2:30 until 4:30 on Wednesday afternoons and consists of drill, athletics, and professional information events. Students gain experience in actual leadership situations and learn the fundamentals of seamanship, military formations, movements, commands, discipline, courtesies, and honors. During information briefings, special emphasis is given to applied leadership as it relates to the administrative and managerial aspects of a Navy or Marine Corps officer's duties.#
&NAVS 2242 | Naval Professional Laboratory&
#All students in the program participate in a two-hour professional development session each week.  The session is held from 2:30 until 4:30 on Wednesday afternoons and consists of drill, athletics, and professional information events.  Students gain experience in actual leadership situations and learn the fundamentals of seamanship, military formations, movements, commands, discipline, courtesies, and honors.  During information briefings, special emphasis is given to applied leadership as it relates to the administrative and managerial aspects of a Navy or Marine Corps officer's duties.#
&NAVS 2301 | Principles of Navigation&
#Introduces the fundamentals of marine navigation emphasizing piloting and electronic navigation procedures. Covers coordinate systems, chart projections, navigational aids, instruments, compass observations, time, and study of tides and currents.#
&NAVS 3202 | Naval Ships Systems II (Weapons)&
#Examines the principles and theories used in the development of naval weapons systems. Extensive study is made of detection systems, especially radar and sonar, followed by discussions of ancillary systems for computing, stabilizing, tracking, and weapons control and delivery.#
&NAVS 3310 | Evolution of Warfare&
#A study of warfare that examines the relationship of military strategy to geography, economics, sociology, technology, and governing policy. This course examines the historical evolution of warfare, including principles of war, development of weapons and their effects on warfare, and the political goals associated with specific adversaries through history.#
&NAVS 3342 | Naval Professional Laboratory&
#All students in the program participate in a two-hour professional development session each week. The session is held from 2:30 until 4:30 on Wednesday afternoons and consists of drill, athletics, and professional information events. Students gain experience in actual leadership situations and learn the fundamentals of seamanship, military formations, movements, commands, discipline, courtesies, and honors. During information briefings, special emphasis is given to applied leadership as it relates to the administrative and managerial aspects of a Navy or Marine Corps officer's duties.#
&NAVS 4402 | Leadership and Ethics&
#The course integrates an intellectual exploration of Western moral traditions and ethical philosophy with a variety of topics, such as military leadership, core values, and professional ethics; the Uniform Code of Military Justice and Navy regulations; and discussions relating to the roles of enlisted members, junior and senior officers, command relationships and the conduct of warfare. The course provides midshipmen with a foundation of moral traditions, combined with a discussion of actual and historical events in the United States Navy and Marine Corps to prepare them for the roles and responsibilities of Naval leadership.#
&NAVS 4442 | Naval Professional Laboratory&
#All students in the program participate in a two-hour professional development session each week. The session is held from 2:30 until 4:30 on Wednesday afternoons and consists of drill, athletics, and professional information events. Students gain experience in actual leadership situations and learn the fundamentals of seamanship, military formations, movements, commands, discipline, courtesies, and honors. During information briefings, special emphasis is given to applied leadership as it relates to the administrative and managerial aspects of a Navy or Marine Corps officer's duties.#


$NBA | Graduate Management Business Admin$
&NBA 3000 | The Business of Entrepreneurship&
#The Business of Entrepreneurship is a comprehensive introduction to the key aspects of envisioning, starting and running a new business. The Business of Entrepreneurship focuses both on concepts and frameworks in entrepreneurship and on "doing" entrepreneurship. Students will form teams, ideate new businesses, complete customer development, construct business models and work towards defining minimum viable products. Topics covered will include definition of the market, sales and distribution, competition, hiring and management of people, cash flow and financial management, making compelling pitches and raising capital. The course culminates in a capstone project of writing a business plan and presenting to a group of entrepreneurs and investors. This course is appropriate both for students interested in launching an entrepreneurial endeavor or students who will benefit from learning frameworks applied to the entrepreneurial process.#
&NBA 4120 | Equity Investment Research and Analysis&
#This course is an introduction to the theory and practice of equity research and is similar to that provided to aspiring analysts, as apprentices, in buy-side investment firms. The course provides a comprehensive framework for analyzing equity securities and developing formal target prices and BUY/SELL/HOLD recommendations. Each student defines an industry to study and prepares an "industry review." Each student analyzes in detail one stock in the industry and prepares a stock report. A live portfolio is invested in late March with student picks. Topics include the research process, analysis strategies, valuation techniques and portfolio construction methods. Templates, examples and detailed feedback on draft reports are provided. Students should be prepared to conduct rigorous, creative research based upon their own work and insights. Class is taught in a hybrid format composed of in-class lectures, workshops, guest speakers, reading assignments, research assignments, lecture video assignments and student presentations.#
&NBA 4920 | Artificial Intelligence for Marketing Strategy&
#With the availability of large, fine-grained traces of consumer behavior, artificial intelligence is increasingly deployed to automate marketing tasks by personalizing consumer experiences. This course is focused on demystifying the artificial intelligence hype by giving you a high-level understanding of how artificial intelligence works, and what it can (and cannot) do well. The course will involve a mixture of lectures, lecture-style case studies, and hands-on exercises in class.#
&NBA 5000 | Intermediate Accounting&
#This course is relevant to a general business career, but is particularly relevant to careers that involve the use of financial statements.  The specific accounting topics covered includes: Statement of Cash Flows; Income Taxes; Divestitures; Financial Assets (Investments and Hedges); Leases; Non-Financial Assets; Revenue Recognition; Pensions; Equity-based Compensation; and EPS.  My objective is to enable you to become more knowledgeable, skeptical consumers of financial information.  This objective will be achieved by a combination of lectures and analyzing and discussing cases that are based on actual financial statements.#
&NBA 5010 | Taxes and Business Strategy&
#Part of being financially savvy is having an understanding of how taxation affects business decisions; e.g., forming a corporation and raising capital, operating the firm, distributing cash to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases, expanding through acquisition, and divesting lines of business. Taxes have a direct impact on cash flow and often divert 30 to 40 percent of the firm's pretax cash flow to the government, effectively making the government the single largest stakeholder in many firms. Having an understanding of taxation and how firms plan accordingly is important for just about any career path you choose, whether you will be an investment banker, venture capitalist, consultant, money manager, CFO, treasurer, controller, taking over a family-owned business, or an entrepreneur setting up a new business. Topics include tax planning fundamentals, corporate tax fundamentals, taxation of mergers and acquisitions, taxation of divestitures, international taxation, taxes and wealth planning.#
&NBA 5020 | Managerial Accounting and Reporting I: Fundamentals of Cost Analysis&
#This course is designed for managers who want to use accounting information within their organizations to improve decision making. The class is divided into three units: cost classification and analysis, costing systems, and performance management. In the first unit, we learn about cost definitions, behavior, estimation, and cost-volume-profit analysis. In the second unit, we discuss the pros and cons of costing systems with an emphasis on accounting for manufacturing. Finally, we explore internal planning and decision making topics, such as budgeting, performance measurement.#
&NBA 5025 | Managerial Accounting and Reporting II: Costing Systems to Support Strategy&
#No description available.#
&NBA 5040 | Federal Income Taxation of Real Estate Ventures&
#This course presents the tax skills necessary to make business, and personal, decisions as it relates to real estate ventures. Emphasis is placed on such areas as acquiring ownership of real property, the various entity structures that a real estate venture can create, and the operational rules surrounding a real estate venture, including the sale and/or exchange of real estate. In addition, securitized real estate investments, such as limited/master limited partnerships and real estate investment trusts (REITS), will be introduced in the later part of course. Practical application of the tax law will be emphasized with proper consideration placed on the historical, economic and political perspectives of the Internal Revenue Code (IRC). The content and design of this course is, only, suitable for advanced undergraduate students and graduate students.#
&NBA 5060 | Financial Statement Analysis&
#The purpose of this course is to give students a broad understanding of financial statement analysis and valuation issues. The emphasis is on helping students understand the basic equity research process for use in investment and business decision applications. The course format is a combination of examples, case studies, and lectures. Potential topics include information sources, strategic ratio analysis, accounting quality, non-GAAP metrics, cash flow analysis, forecasting financial statements, and firm valuation using discounted cash flow and residual income techniques. The course deliverables include an equity research project and a final exam.#
&NBA 5070 | Entrepreneurship for Scientists and Engineers&
#The course provides a hand-on experience for learning the key philosophies and tactics of entrepreneurial activity and the entrepreneurial mindset.  The unique focus of this class is that it is designed for Scientists & Engineers who would start a business that would have meaningful technology at the heart of the company.  This includes the development of a viable business concept, customer discovery, the evaluation and planning of the start-up businesses, go-to-market strategy, intellectual property, and financing. The course utilizes lectures,  directed readings, and guest speakers. The goal is a meaningful understanding of how to design a new business venture, achieved by building and communicating the framework for a viable business.#
&NBA 5075 | Big Red Ventures&
#Big Red Ventures is Cornell's student-run venture fund. Founded in 2000 as a student project, BRV fund managers source new investment opportunities, conduct opportunity assessments and due diligence, make investment recommendations, assess and vote on recommendations of other fund managers, and make investments in early-stage, high-growth startup companies. Fund managers also manage existing portfolio investments, conduct annual portfolio valuations, and prepare investor materials such as an annual report and annual meeting. Fund managers operate under the guidance and oversight of experienced practitioner faculty. BRV is a selective program, with an application and interview process open to MBAs, JDs, and PhD candidates; the course is only open to students who apply to become and are selected as fund managers (see brventurefund.com for application details and timing). Full participation at either the Ithaca or Cornell Tech campuses, both fall and spring semester, is required.#
&NBA 5090 | Advanced Financial Statement Analysis&
#This course builds on the material of NBA 5060 and focuses on more advanced financial statement topics and specialized industries. Topics may include investment research, accounting analysis, accounting quality, credit analysis, and advanced valuation issues.   Instruction focuses on a combination of lecture and case-based discussion.  Students are expected to have taken NBA 5060 or possess a good understanding of basic financial statement analysis.  The material is designed to broaden student's understanding of financial statement analysis and complement the tools developed in NBA 5060. The course deliverables include case write-ups, an equity research project, and a final exam.#
&NBA 5110 | Financial Modeling&
#Financial modeling is the art and science of constructing spreadsheet models of firms' future financial statements. This class draws on and integrates students' knowledge of concepts learned in prior accounting classes by modeling the effect on the income statement, balance sheet, and statement of cash flows of financial transactions such as leveraged buyouts, mergers and acquisitions, and corporate reorganizations.#
&NBA 5111 | Foundations of Financial Modeling&
#This course is NBA 5110 for non-MBA students. The course integrates financial analysis and financial modeling concepts to prepare students for careers in investment banking. Early classes focus on understanding and interpreting financial statements. Focus then shifts to building economically sound financial statement forecasts to create financial statement models. The second half of the course uses financial statement models to model equity valuations, alternative investment and financing decisions, leveraged buyouts and recapitalizations, and merger and acquisition transactions. The course presumes familiarity with basic financial accounting concepts, as well as basic corporate finance concepts and time-value of money.#
&NBA 5120 | Applied Portfolio Management&
#This course is an introduction to the theory and practice of fundamental research, quantitative equity security selection, and equity portfolio management. Students have the unique opportunity as part of this course to manage the Cayuga Fund, a student managed fund with $1 million in assets under management from the Cornell University endowment. Students will serve as fundamental analysts, quantitative analysts and portfolio specialists for the fund. Instruction on analysis, portfolio management and the investment business are included in this course. Students are expected to assume leadership for managing the Fund by the end of the semester. The experience is similar to that offered to rising analysts and portfolio managers in buy-side investment firms. Students will learn credit research techniques, maintain their stock coverage and continue managing the Fund in the spring.#
&NBA 5140 | Ethics and Corporate Culture&
#In the high-pressure worlds of business and law, all too often good people do bad things. In many cases, the unethical behavior is due in part to a toxic corporate culture. The attitudes, values, and practices that prevail in their organizations induce otherwise ethical employees to take actions that violate widely shared norms of conduct. Such behavior can be costly-even disastrous-leading to ruined careers, tarnished corporate reputations, and legal liability for the individuals and their companies. In an environment where "only results matter," it can be difficult for a new MBA or law school graduate to recognize the risks. This course seeks to help MBAs and law students understand how a firm's culture, combined with common human tendencies, can tempt-or push-employees into unethical behavior. It also considers how employees can meet ethical challenges posed by their firms' cultures. Course consists of case studies and readings reporting on relevant research in psychology and organizational behavior, as well as the annual Day Family Ethics Lecture by a noted guest speaker from business, law, journalism, or academia.#
&NBA 5150 | Leadership Theory and Practice&
#This course will focus on the challenges of effective leadership in a complex world. The course has four significant parts: 1. Exploring historical and contemporary theories and models of leadership through the required text and selected articles; 2. Examining and applying the Johnson School's Leadership Model; 3. Analyzing the practical challenges of leadership through case studies, and executive speakers; 4. Developing self-awareness of the student's leadership strengths and weaknesses through the use of behavioral instruments and group exercises and creating a personal action plan for improvement. A critical element of this course will be the coaching and feedback students will receive on their own leadership styles and behaviors from their peers and instructor.#
&NBA 5175 | Life Science Entrepreneurship in Practice&
#The course provides a hands-on experience for learning the key philosophies and tactics of entrepreneurial activity surrounding the launch and early growth of life science ventures. We will focus on learning how life science technology concepts in the pharma/biotech, health, veterinary, and agri-tech sectors are converted into sustainable and scalable businesses. We will also consider the unique aspects of starting a life science venture related to R&D/product development, regulatory/clinical aspects, reimbursement/revenue models, and manufacturing/operations.#
&NBA 5180 | Design and Innovation&
#In today's business landscape, creative problem solving has become a critical tool for leaders to drive innovation and transformation across different industries. This hands-on course serves as an initial introduction to various design tools and aims to develop a creative problem-solving opportunity mindset to identify new avenues to create meaningful impact. The curriculum dives into foundational design concepts, design thinking, and human-centered design principles. This course requires agility, openness to new ways of thinking, and the ability to embrace ambiguity. It is structured around project-based teamwork to foster collaboration and aims to establish a culture of diversity through open and constructive critiques. With support from selected readings, case studies, and insights from guest speakers across various industries, the course ensures a comprehensive understanding of design and innovation thinking and methods.#
&NBA 5185 | Green Tech Innovation in Practice&
#Focused on developing the next generation of clean energy, climate tech, and sustainability-oriented startup leaders, this course empowers PhD and MBA candidates from across Cornell's colleges to dive into hands-on, innovation-driven startup creation. This workshop course leverages PhD participants' research expertise and thesis subjects to shape innovative business model hypotheses. Collaborative, cross-disciplinary teams, inclusive of researchers, cultivate their 'entrepreneurial judgment' by strategically testing these hypotheses to mitigate business model risks. Seasoned entrepreneurs, investors, and faculty provide ongoing feedback to refine insights and set team priorities. Armed with essential tools, training, and deeper entrepreneurial judgment, attendees are prepared to spearhead their own startups or lead in the flourishing green tech sector. Enrollment is limited to participants in the Green Technology Innovation Fellowship with instructor permission.#
&NBA 5245 | Introduction to Macroeconomics&
#The course introduces the basic tools of economic policies and the key issues of modern economies. The course provides the necessary knowledge to analyze the basic goals of macroeconomic policy i.e., low unemployment, stable inflation, financial stability, and stable and strong economic growth.  Topics covered include, among others, economic growth, expansions and recessions, monetary and fiscal policies, GDP, inflation, unemployment, the public debt, interest rates, the trade deficit, exchange rates, and global markets. Although focusing on the U.S.— the world's largest national economy—and paying special attention to its institutions and problems, the course will emphasize the global context in which it functions by periodically shifting attention to other economies around the world. Globalization-related issues such as international financial markets and global crises will be given special attention.#
&NBA 5250 | Cayuga Fund Equity Analyst&
#The Cayuga Fund Equity Analyst program is designed for students interested in pursuing careers in securities research and investment management.  This course allows select first year MBA and select other students to participate in the management of the Cayuga Fund, a $1 million small-cap equity fund that invests money for the Cornell University endowment, under the guidance and mentorship of faculty and second year Cayuga Fund students who are taking NBA 5120 and NBA 5121.  Students are assigned industry sectors to cover, and conduct investment research on the industries. Deliverables include participating in sector meetings and portfolio reviews and presenting industry research in the NBA 5120 class.#
&NBA 5305 | Entrepreneurial Finance: Valuation and Term Sheet Design&
#This course is designed to introduce students to the challenges and pitfalls of financing new enterprises from the perspective of the finance function head for a seed- or early-stage startup. We will cover how startups assess their needs for capital, access different sources of capital and appropriateness for different types of startups, and how new ventures manage the finance function as they grow. Class sessions will combine lectures and cases; the course assumes students have completed introductory finance and accounting.#
&NBA 5330 | Management Cases&
#The course builds case-cracking skills, a CEO perspective and developing and defending a fact-based point of view.#
&NBA 5350 | Federal Income Taxation of Corporations and Shareholders&
#This course presents the tax skills necessary to make business decisions pertaining to corporations and their shareholders. Emphasis is placed on such areas as a corporation's formation and capital structure, earnings and profits, dividend distributions, redemptions, liquidations and reorganizations of corporations. Practical application of the tax law will be emphasized with proper consideration placed on the historical, economic and political perspectives of the Internal Revenue Code (IRC).#
&NBA 5355 | Federal Income Taxation of Flow Through Entities, Estates and Trusts&
#This course presents the tax skills necessary to make business decisions pertaining to "flow-through entities" and to a more limited extent transfer taxes, including the estate and gift tax. Emphasis is placed on such "flow-through entities" as partnerships and "S" Corporations. Partnership areas covered include the formation and operation of a partnership, transactions between partner and partnership, distributions from a partnership, including distributions to retiring or deceased partners, sale of a partnership interest, optional adjustments to property basis, and the termination of a partnership. The formation and operational rules surrounding an "S" corporation are also talked about, including the similarities and differences in compliance issues facing both a partnership and "S" corporation.#
&NBA 5360 | Investment Banking Essentials&
#This course will help students learn how to be investment bankers. Taught by an experienced ex-banker on the faculty of Johnson, this class will introduce students to capital raising, LBO, and strategic M&A transactions in a hands-on way that will focus on how to perform IB analyst-level duties. Students will be introduced to valuation (comps, precedents, and DCF), accretion/dilution, and how to assemble a pitch book. Working in groups, students will be presented with real-world assignments and will present their work in class. No prelim or final exam.#
&NBA 5380 | The Business Idea Factory&
#Do you want to become an entrepreneur, but you don't yet have that brilliant idea? This class will help you come up with new ideas and evaluate which ones are the most worth pursuing to ensure you invest your time and energies on ideas that have the most promise. The first section of the course will be about places and processes that you can use to find inspiration to come up with a large number of potential business ideas. We will then walk through a systematic process to evaluate, validate, and quantify the best ideas for each team. This process will be assisted by experienced entrepreneurs as guest speakers who will share the inspirations for their businesses, the methods they used to select those ideas as worthy of pursuit, as well as insights into their careers.#
&NBA 5390 | Profiles in Leadership&
#Profiles in Leadership is Johnson's premier platform for c-level executive speakers. Johnson has long attracted an impressive array of executive speakers; this course provides a streamlined platform for students to engage regularly with industry luminaries such as Irene Rosenfeld, David Einhorn, and others. Each session will begin with a presentation by the invited guest, followed by a robust discussion about the topics raised in the lecture as well as issues related to current events and other experiences of the lecturer. Students are required to research each lecturer and submit a topical question via Canvas prior to the lecture.#
&NBA 5410 | Project Management&
#This course covers basic concepts in planning, scheduling and monitoring a project. The tools provided in the course aim to help plan, manage and deliver projects on time and on budget.#
&NBA 5420 | Investment and Portfolio Management&
#The first half of the course focuses on the tools of disciplined investing: portfolio construction, diversification, arbitrage pricing, and valuation. We also cover factor investing (value & momentum strategies), fixed income pricing, and performance evaluation of institutional investors such as pension funds, private equity, and hedge funds. The second half of the course studies investing in the context of the global macroeconomy. We study how monetary policy and banking affect financial markets, along with the risks and opportunities of emerging market investing.#
&NBA 5490 | Corporate Finance Immersion Practicum&
#The Corporate Finance Immersion (CFI) Practicum is designed to provide students with a real world and practical perspective on the activities, processes and critical questions faced by corporate finance executives. It is oriented around the key principles of shareholder value creation and the skills and processes corporations use to drive value. The CFI Practicum will help develop skills and executive judgement for students seeking roles in corporate finance, corporate strategy, business development, financial planning, treasury, and financial management training programs. The course can also help students pursuing consulting to sharpen their financial skills and get an excellent view of a corporation's strategic and financial objectives. The practicum will be comprised of a mix of lectures, cases, guest speakers, and team projects. Additionally, there will be training workshops to build your financial modelling skills.#
&NBA 5530 | Accounting and Financial Decision Making&
#Focuses on basic financial and managerial accounting and the economic and financial concepts that have a bearing on internal (i.e., managerial) and external (i.e., investors, creditors, regulators) users' decisions. The goals are to (1) give students a working knowledge of the accounting process and the value and limitations of the data that come out of the accounting information system; (2) familiarize students with key concepts in managerial accounting and the application of cost information to pricing and operating decisions; and (3) promote an understanding of the use of economic theory in the evaluation of capital investment projects. Instruction is a mixture of lecture and case discussion. Grading is based on exams, assignments, and class contribution.#
&NBA 5560 | Investment Banking Immersion Practicum&
#The Investment Banking Immersion Practicum is structured to provide students with "real world" investment banking experience in an academic environment. Students, working in teams, will play the role of investment bankers throughout the semester. Assignments will be structured in the form of client pitch-book presentations, which will generally be presented during class. Students will be exposed to, and will develop a working understanding of, all aspects of the capital raising and merger & acquisition processes.#
&NBA 5580 | Corporate Financial Policy&
#This course develops the framework for evaluating the gains, costs, and risks of managing firms' financial assets and liabilities, as well as their interaction with real-side decisions (investment, mergers, R&D, employment, etc.). It takes the perspective of financial managers at public corporations, individuals that are responsible for financial decision-making, as well as that of market participants ― e.g., investment bankers, analysts, fund managers, regulators ― that monitor and evaluate corporate policies. Among other topics, the course will discuss issues related to corporate capital structure, dividend policy, issuance decisions, and liquidity risk management. The course will do so going beyond standard textbook coverage, making sense of available research on financial policy, looking at what CFOs think via field surveys, studying real-world examples of financial policy-making.#
&NBA 5590 | The Venture Capital Industry and Private Equity Markets&
#Jesse Reyes is a leading private equity research expert, providing research or advisory services to the private equity industry for over 30 years. His lectures will focus on the venture capital and private equity industries from the limited partner investor's perspective. Topics include (1) an introduction to the private equity ecosystem, including its structure, participants, history, and trends; (2) institutional private equity investing-examining how private equity investment fits into the institutional investors' asset allocation mix; (3) an examination of private equity performance measurement and trends and how structural differences in private equity investments make optimized allocation decisions challenging; and (4) emerging issues facing the private equity industry, such as new regulatory initiatives, fundraising and market efficiency challenges. There is an assigned problem set or a small topic research report to be completed for class credit.#
&NBA 5615 | Digital Platform Strategy&
#Business platforms are a set of business and technology building blocks that serve to facilitate the creation of complementary products and services. They are an essential feature of modern economies, particularly among products and services created by software. The emphasis of this course is on how to create, grow, gain value and capture market share from platforms. Course content will draw concepts from network effects, information asymmetry, pricing, and game theory. Students will apply these concepts to make decisions on how to manage platforms in case studies drawing from social media, entrepreneurship, enterprise software, and mobile services, among others. The course will be useful for students interested in founding new businesses, managing technology ventures and investing.#
&NBA 5640 | The Business of Entrepreneurship&
#The Business of Entrepreneurship is a comprehensive introduction to the key aspects of envisioning, starting and running a new business. The Business of Entrepreneurship focuses both on concepts and frameworks in entrepreneurship and on "doing" entrepreneurship. Students will form teams, ideate new businesses, complete customer development, construct business models and work towards defining minimum viable products. Topics covered will include definition of the market, sales and distribution, competition, hiring and management of people, cash flow and financial management, making compelling pitches and raising capital. The course culminates in a capstone project of writing a business plan and presenting to a group of entrepreneurs and investors. This course is appropriate both for students interested in launching an entrepreneurial endeavor or students who will benefit from learning frameworks applied to the entrepreneurial process.#
&NBA 5645 | Dilemmas in Founding New Ventures&
#The purpose of NBA5645 Dilemmas in Founding New Ventures is to increase your startup's chances of success by helping you avoid the #1 reason for startup failure: not strategy, not product, not execution, but TEAM-related mistakes. We start by analyzing the very first decision in any new venture, whether to found solo or with others. If you have co-founders, who will they be? And how will you split the equity? Finally, we wrestle with the fundamental tradeoff in entrepreneurship: Growth vs. Glory. Can you grow your startup quickly without being replaced by a "seasoned" CEO? I'll teach you techniques for keeping control, which too many founders realize too late they have lost. For further information, please visit: http://nba5645.org.#
&NBA 5650 | Corporate Governance&
#The goal of this course is to introduce you to the area of corporate governance. We will discuss the goal of the corporation and the role of stakeholders in the decision making. We will examine the sources of the conflict of interest between controllers of the organization and shareholders. We will then study the different mechanisms to overcome these conflicts, their advantages and disadvantages. We will also devote time to study differences in corporate governance systems across different countries. I put a strong emphasis in this class on current events and real life examples. Among the topics covered: the role, responsibilities, and strategies of the board of directors,  shareholder activism and the mechanisms used to protect shareholders, the takeover market, the tender offer mechanism, and anti-takeover measures, the design of compensation contracts, and differences among the above mechanisms across different countries.#
&NBA 5670 | Management Writing&
#This course is designed to develop your writing skills in the context of practical business applications. It begins with a strategic perspective on business writing and focuses on the elements that make your writing clear, concise, efficient, and effective.  You will improve the clarity, content, structure, and visual design of your management writing, as well as increase your confidence in your communication skills. The course is suitable for students for whom English is their native language, as well as students for whom English may be a second or third language.#
&NBA 5680 | Management Presentations&
#NBA 5680 focuses on advancing the management presentation skills of graduate students. The course covers effective strategies and best practices for business presentations both in terms of content/organization and delivery (verbal and non verbal). The course emphasizes active learning and continuous student practice with feedback from peers and the instructor. By the end of the class students raise their understanding and appreciation of effective presentation practices, increase their awareness of their own strengths and weaknesses and become noticeably improved communicators.#
&NBA 5682 | Interpersonal Communications&
#Examines a range of interpersonal communication strategies and skills required of successful managers in the workplace, based on self awareness of your own communication style, with a focus on intercultural challenges. Topics include listening skills, debate vs dialogue,  conversational skills, difficult conversations, and appreciation of intercultural perspectives.#
&NBA 5690 | Management Consulting Essentials&
#This course will help students learn about consulting and the skills and capabilities to be a successful consultant. The course will begin with a module on successful case interviews. The consulting process will be discussed and why it leads to successful solutions for complex business problems. With the consulting process understood the course will focus on developing a problem definition diagnostic framework, hypotheses, analytical approaches, data collection and conclusions. The course will also include concepts critical to consulting including interviewing to collect information, facilitating meetings, managing clients and their expectations, selling recommendations and developing impactful presentations. The course will use a combination of lectures, case work, individual and teamwork to learn the concepts.#
&NBA 5766 | Taxation of Mergers and Acquisitions&
#This course will examine the federal income taxation of M&A transactions and prepare students for the practical aspects of transactional tax work in the context of mergers and acquisitions.   We will explore selected tax issues that drive deal structure in both public and private M&A transactions and pay special attention to tax considerations relevant to private equity fund acquisitions.  We will also cover topics of current political relevance that relate to M&A taxation.  Students will learn to draft and negotiate tax provisions in M&A documents and conduct tax research in the manner of a transactional tax attorney.  The content of this course will be useful not only to students interested in transactional tax work but also to those who will pursue a more general corporate practice in which they will encounter significant tax issues.#
&NBA 5780 | Consulting Problem-Solving Process&
#Focuses on understanding and applying the problem-solving process used by consultants. The course is organized around a simulated project to help students understand the process and skills needed to be successful in a consulting internship or beginning a career in consulting. There are assigned readings on interviewing and the client consultant relationship. You will work through the simulated project in problem definition and project planning, interview planning, data collection, analysis, developing conclusions and recommendations and final presentations.   There are five team assignments, an interim presentation and a final presentation. The final team presentation will be live. We have a series of guest speakers for most of the classes focusing on key   capabilities in the consultant problem solving process for success in your internship and career.  This course is designed for those interning in consulting or going into it full-time.#
&NBA 5785 | Strategic Decision Modeling&
#This course is designed to expose students to common multifaceted analytical and decision-making scenarios they will face in a management consulting environment, be it a large consultancy, a specialized boutique, or an internal consulting group within a Fortune 500 company. The topics, hands-on class work, and assignments are largely based on real cases the instructor has faced in the course of his management consulting career. This real-life approach provides students the analytical tools necessary to better prepare for a career in management consulting. In this "hands-on" lab-style course, we will develop and use Excel spreadsheets to analyze a variety of business problems and derive client recommendations.#
&NBA 5790 | Applied Principles of Business Strategy&
#This course builds on the concepts covered in the core strategy course, NCC 5090. It is designed to further develop and refine skills for analyzing, formulating, and implementing business strategies – and is organized into four modules. Module 1 focuses on the entire "ecosystem" of strategy, including the strategy process, the key tools for strategic analysis, the key frameworks for strategy formulation, and the key levers for strategy implementation. Module 2 goes deep into "competitive games" and research findings on what constitutes a "successful" strategy. Module 3 focuses on strategy implementation, including decision-driven design models as the key linkage between strategy and organization, as well as repeatable models as the key engine to successful execution. In addition, a methodology for change management will be introduced, illustrated, and put into practice. Module 4 focuses on strategy and transformations in a turbulent, post-globalized, digital, and stakeholder-driven world. Each module covers multiple real-life case examples and will conclude with a case study for classroom discussion.#
&NBA 5820 | Leaders in Family Enterprise in Practice and Theory&
#Family businesses are the predominant form of business organizations, accounting for nearly two thirds of all businesses in the world, and contribute an estimated 70-90% of the annual global GDP. In the United States, it is estimated there are 32.4 million family businesses, and collectively they contribute over 54% of GDP and generate 59% of private sector workforce. These firms are distinguished from other enterprises by the significant influence of the controlling family on the creation, continuity, mode and extent of growth, and exit of a business. This course aims to prepare students to work effectively and professionally, in, with or for a family firm, to understand the unique characteristics of family ownership, and/or to create, launch and manage create cross-generational value and wealth in family firms.#
&NBA 5885 | Advanced Critical Thinking for Business Leaders&
#Building upon the foundational critical and strategic concepts introduced in NCC 5050 (Core Critical and Strategic Thinking), this course will: (a) deepen your understanding of frameworks that aid in strategic analysis of organizational problems; (b) explore additional concepts and skills that promote critically thoughtful analysis of complex dilemmas (e.g., framework for analyzing strategy/context fit, stakeholder analysis, change management, risk rating and monitoring); and (c) give you opportunities to practice persuasively communicating to key decision-makers your proposed solution to the complex organizational problems you have thoughtfully analyzed.#
&NBA 5940 | Mergers and Acquisitions - Accounting, Modeling and Evaluations of Deals&
#This course provides an overview of how to do the accounting and reporting for M&A deals.  In addition, students are taught how to model, evaluate and perform critical analysis of M&A deals.#
&NBA 5979 | Environmental Finance & Impact Investing Practicum&
#No description available.#
&NBA 5980 | Behavioral Finance&
#Behavioral Finance studies financial market phenomena that occur due to cognitive biases of market participants. This course introduces the conceptual framework of behavioral finance and investor psychology and then applies the framework to issues in stock market investing, real estate investing, and banking. Topics include: (1) investor psychological biases and irrational trading behavior; (2) limits of arbitrage and the risks of leveraged convergence trading; (3) behavioral finance trading strategies; (4) stock market and real estate bubbles; and (5) credit booms and financial crises.#
&NBA 6029 | Leading Agile Innovation&
#In this course students will work on improving their innovation skills. We will start by discussing the basic principles of agile innovation. We will then discuss those behaviors linked to innovation and creativity.  Students will learn how to optimize innovation in a team setting. Students will also work on developing these skills in a 3 day innovation event (hackathon) where they will identify an unmet need and develop a solution to the opportunity build a prototype and business model around this solution and pitch this solution to a panel of investors. Students will gain a broader perspective of both the challenges (i.e. organizational and institutional) in an increasingly digital economy and opportunities (i.e. unmet customer needs and possibilities for future ventures) in this economy. Students will formulate teams to generate solutions to real-world problems. Students will learn and apply team innovation principles, business model innovation, design thinking, and product development, the class will also cover the psychology of creativity, product pitches, and the basic principles of leading innovation in a team including team demography and team processes that drive innovation. Students will then practice these skills.#
&NBA 6030 | Strategies for Sustainability&
#Corporations are under increasing pressure from shareholders, employees, communities, and activists to account for the environmental and social effects that their activities create. Increasingly, firms are taking strategic approach to addressing these issues, developing programs that fit their capabilities, resources, and cultures.  Through a combination of cases, readings, lectures, and videos, class sessions will ensure students develop an understanding of sustainability in the context of business as well as strategic business decision-making in the context of sustainability.  NBA 6030 is open to all graduate students.#
&NBA 6035 | Organizational Change and Sustainability&
#Building on concepts established in NBA 6030, students will develop deeper understanding of how firms have implemented sustainability initiatives related to product improvement, innovation, and restructuring to define the role the private sector can play to address social and environmental issues in a competitive marketplace.  Students will follow a company of their choosing and analyze its sustainability initiatives, developing a strategic plan for the company's future sustainability efforts.#
&NBA 6045 | Innovation and New Product Management&
#The objective of this course is to build a foundational understanding of the product management function in modern organizations. This course takes a consumer-centric and data-driven approach to the challenge of developing and launching new products into the market, as well as managing them over their lifecycle. Focusing mainly (but not exclusively) on technology companies interested in pursuing growth, we will discuss the steps needed to develop and bring products to market, including understanding customer needs to create mutual value, conducting demand forecasts, and designing a launch plan, including targeting, positioning, advertising, pricing, and distribution decisions. To bridge theory and practice, class sessions will interweave lectures, case discussions, in-class exercises, and guest speakers. Deliverables include individual and groups assignments and a final group project.#
&NBA 6070 | Designing Data Products&
#This course will help students to gain the necessary skills of building a data product and using AI (artificial intelligence). Many industries today are faced with high data volumes and there is an understanding that "data is the new gold". Business or customer value is not created by data; but rather, it is created by the application of data, ML (machine learning) and deep learning AI. This course trains students to link the possibilities of data and AI to business needs. This course will be held over seven class sessions of double-period length. These classes will be a combination of lectures, discussions, interviews, hands on training with data and AI and peer reviews. At the end of this course students will build their own AI driven product.#
&NBA 6090 | Digital Marketing&
#The purpose of this class is to introduce fundamental concepts in digital marketing and prepare students for roles as a marketer, entrepreneur, or product manager. Students will be exposed to an overview of the major players in the advertising and digital industries, as well as a variety of tools commonly found in start-ups and technology firms. Through case studies, lectures, and guest speakers, students will develop skills and a plan for interviewing with established firms or starting a technology venture. Each year this course will highlight emerging digital technology as an anchor for the speakers and the assignments, such as the interaction of AI and digital marketing.#
&NBA 6145 | AI Strategy and Applications&
#Artificial Intelligence (AI) is a science and set of computational techniques that are inspired by the way that humans use their nervous systems and bodies to sense, learn, reason and take action. In recent years, AI has emerged as one of the most important disruptions facing business and society over the next several decades. While AI is not new and has been around for more than 60 years, the confluence of certain trends over the last decades and accelerating technological change has introduced a new urgency into the study of the impact of AI on business, government and society.#
&NBA 6200 | Marketing Research&
#The course is aimed at students who are interested in pursuing activities in marketing strategy and analytics. The primary objective of this course is to provide students how marketing research can help drive strategic business and marketing decisions. Students will be exposed to the practical side of marketing research (e.g., research design, qualitative research, survey research, marketing analytics) through case studies, hands-on exercises, and projects. This course is particularly relevant for students interested in careers in consulting, product, service and brand management, and retailing as well as for entrepreneurs.#
&NBA 6215 | Introduction to Python for Business&
#The rapid accumulation of high-dimensional data has opened new opportunities to make informed business decisions. Python is a widely used programming language for analyzing data-rich business problems. Python is designed to describe, categorize, and analyze this large-scale data easily and intuitively. This course presents a unique opportunity to cover the basics of programming with Python while exposing students to various kinds of applications. The objective of the course is to build from scratch students' ability to write codes in Python, read other people's code, analyze, visualize, and interpret data.#
&NBA 6240 | Strategic Product and Marketing Immersion&
#This immersion course is essential for students going into product management (tech) or brand management (consumer goods) careers. Many of our students are successfully placed in jobs in companies such as Amazon, Apple, American Express, Bayer, Colgate, Citibank, General Mills, Google, Microsoft, S C Johnson, Unilever, Verizon, or early-stage startups. Students interested in general management and those who plan to start their own businesses might also find this course useful. This course introduces students to the frameworks that address how to identify target customers, launch new products, run A/B tests to prove out growth strategies, write positioning statements, build brands, manage product portfolios, and optimize both digital and non-digital marketing activities. The course entails lectures, guest speakers, and a team-based, semester-long consulting project focused on a marketing or product management challenge.#
&NBA 6320 | Core Leadership Skills for a VUCA World&
#Core Leadership Skills for a VUCA World is designed to provide students with an opportunity to expand their knowledge and understanding of the key leadership skills required for success in today's volatile, uncertain, complex, and ambiguous business world through discussion and interaction with an experienced practitioner and former leader of the United States Army. The course will be comprised of four modules: 1) Leadership Principles for a Volatile, Uncertain, Complex and Ambiguous World; 2) Developing and Communicating Vision and Strategy; 3) Setting Conditions for Success; and, 4) Character and Leadership. Coursework to include readings, discussion, and a final paper.#
&NBA 6330 | Actualizing Your Startup - Part II&
#Actualizing Your Startup Parts 1 and 2 are performance learning courses, based around student projects in the form of students and teams starting their own companies. eLab's instructors serve as coaches, guides, mentors, teachers, and assistants to the teams, and will coordinate the involvement of a number of high-profile mentors from the startup and venture capital community. Students will enhance their business and entrepreneurship learning by putting theoretical concepts into practice in starting and growing their own companies in a team environment. We expect that students will take this opportunity to "make it real" - eLab is not about starting theoretical companies, or theoretically exploring potential business ideas. Rather, it is about starting real companies that have the potential to grow and provide employment and economic benefit to their founders, and to provide deep experiential learning in starting and growing a business.#
&NBA 6340 | Customer Analytics and Strategy&
#The course is aimed at students who are interested in pursuing activities in customer strategy and analytics built around the notion of customer centricity. The primary objective of this course is to provide students how customer management can help accomplish strategic initiatives, improve firm profitability and build lasting competitive advantage. Students will be exposed to the practical side of customer management through case studies and hands-on exercises. This course is particularly relevant for students interested in careers in consulting, product, service and brand management, and retailing as well as for entrepreneurs.#
&NBA 6370 | Current Global Issues for Business: China, India, Latin America, Europe and beyond&
#The objective of the course is to deepen students' understanding of current issues of business-government relations. In particular, the course will help students contextualize political, economic or business events and their consequences for conducting business in different parts of the world. The course is organized around the analysis of a series of current events that illustrate specific challenges and opportunities. Some of the main topics include world trade in the current context, nationalism and business in Europe, doing business under single-party rule in China, populism's risks and opportunities for business environments. Students will analyze current news in both developed (Europe) and emerging markets (China, India, Brazil, Mexico). The course will strive to expose students to different points of view on these issues and their implications.  This course will give students the tools to navigate the volatility, uncertainty, complexity, and ambiguity of the current international environment. It will provide a VUCA and scenario planning frameworks to help students understand 1) The rapid pace of political, economic and business changes in both developed and emerging markets and the connections between both 2) Paradigm changes 3) Risk scenario management 4) Business strategies for different types of markets and 5) Different sources of news/data from emerging markets.#
&NBA 6380 | Finance and Sustainable Global Enterprise Colloquium&
#Finance + Sustainable Global Enterprise Colloquium is meant to provide students the opportunity to hear in-depth presentations in interactive sessions with leaders from the private, public, or non-profit sectors who are on the cutting edge of the finance-sustainability domain. The class will leverage connections from the Center for Sustainable Global Enterprise and faculty active in the finance industry. Session structures will vary in format and are likely to include lectures, living case studies, panel discussions, and moderated Q&A. The instructor will strive for representation of a variety of areas, including public and private equity, investment banking, and managerial finance. Content will span environmental finance, impact investing, socially responsible investing, capital budgeting, project financing, and other areas relevant to the sustainable global enterprise space. The course will be open to any interested student, but students selected for the Center's Environmental Finance & Impact Investing (EFII) Fellows Program will be required to enroll in the course. In addition to speaker sessions, there will be 1-3 additional sessions focused on synthesizing.#
&NBA 6392 | Data-Driven Decision Making&
#No description available.#
&NBA 6430 | Managerial Spreadsheet Modeling&
#The goal of this hands-on course is to develop proficiency in quantitative modeling within the environment of Microsoft Excel. Students develop and use spreadsheets to analyze a variety of business problems. The course has two principal components: spreadsheets and models. Spreadsheet topics include principles of good spreadsheet design, the effective presentation of information through spreadsheets (including graphical controls and dashboard design), and advanced Excel features (e.g., conditional formatting, data validation). Modeling topics include the art of finding the appropriate level of modeling detail, sensitivity analysis, and using solver and regression to perform optimization and estimation tasks.#
&NBA 6460 | Financial Institutions&
#This course explores the economic functions, institutional design, and regulation of financial institutions. Beginning with conventional deposit-taking banks, the course examines the risks embedded within the business of banking, along with how regulation seeks to manage these risks. It then expands this framework to examine several other forms of 'non-bank' financial intermediation including investment banks, insurance companies, wholesale funding markets, structured finance markets, money market and other investment funds, and financial market infrastructure. The course also examines some of the related consumer/investor protection problems and how financial regulation seeks to address them.#
&NBA 6480 | Digital Technology Practicum&
#This course is for students looking to work in Product management in Tech companies or in companies which provide digital products and services. It is also a suitable class for those considering a career in Digital/Tech consulting. The class consists of lectures and training on how to be an effective Product Manager for digital products and services through a combination of lectures, guest speakers and a semester long hands-on project. The Project is a simulation of what a Product manager would do in real life at a tech company with deliverables which are similar to what they would have at work. The Project deliverables will be in sync with what is taught in the class lectures. The Project teams will comprise students from different backgrounds including having Masters students from Information sciences to reflect a real-life team in the workplace. Guest speakers will share their experiences and learnings as Product managers, Product Strategists, Digital Transformation experts, Technology Consultants etc.#
&NBA 6550 | Business Data Analysis with SQL&
#We live in an age of data abundance. Vast amounts of data are being collected and analyzed to inform decision-making. Introductory knowledge of SQL database systems is a requirement for most business management roles. The objectives of this course are firstly, to build from scratch your ability to write SQL code in order to retrieve, clean, and organize datasets stored in databases, and secondly, to expose you to different kinds of business datasets and potential uses. In other words, this is a unique SQL course targeted at business students. Students with a good programming background should not take this course.#
&NBA 6575 | Topics in ESG Investing&
#Individual and Institutional investors are increasingly aligning their investment portfolios to account for Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) objectives.   ESG investing, however, is still in its infancy.  Academic thought, regulations and investor behavior are rapidly evolving.  This makes ESG investing an extremely interesting and dynamic area of study. By the end of this class, a student should be able to articulately incorporate ESG considerations into their overall investment recommendations and decisions.  This course should be beneficial to any student planning a career in equity investing, either as a direct investor, asset allocator or advisor.  Students planning on being corporate managers would also benefit from this class as ESG considerations are increasingly impacting the way corporations are managed.  This course is also suitable for anyone interested in sustainability issues broadly, but a basic knowledge of equity investing is required.#
&NBA 6585 | Sustainable Global Enterprise in Practice&
#NBA 6585 will include a combination of readings, activities, simulations, and other interactive mechanisms that help students gain insight into how to identify and define complex business issues, rigorously collect and analyze data related to sustainability and business, and develop and recommend strategies and solutions for companies to address sustainability challenges in ways that align with the competitive demands of the market. NBA 6585 is part of the SGE Intensive program.#
&NBA 6607 | Executive Compensation&
#This course will provide students with an overview of the design, structure, purpose, and "fairness" of executive compensation as seen from the perspective of all stakeholders including executives, other employees, regulators, board members, institutional shareholders, independent advisors, and the independent press. We will pay special attention to the role of ESG in setting corporate priorities as reflected in the choice of performance metrics. Students will learn the structure of all components of executive pay (including base pay, annual incentives, performance plans, and equity-based pay), understand how performance and pay levels are determined, and investigate how the various stakeholders interact in the decision-making process. The course will examine each critical decision made in the executive pay determination process to uncover why decisions are made and the leverage applied by each of the constituent parties. The course will also examine the linkages between executive compensation, corporate governance, and business strategy as well as the issues surrounding compliance with securities laws, tax regulations, accounting standards, and corporate governance. Lectures will be supplemented with guest speakers representing the stakeholder groups.#
&NBA 6650 | The Strategic Management of Technology and Innovation&
#This is an introductory management course covering the management of technology and innovation in established firms. This course will explore what lessons large firms can learn from startups as well. This course is designed for students who may someday work in roles that require them to apply entrepreneurial thinking to launch new products and business models to capture new markets and evade disruption. Students taking this course will receive an understanding of how to incorporate aspects of entrepreneurship into their work in established firms to better discover and exploit valuable opportunities. This course will discuss how industries are transformed by new technologies and how these patterns of industrial change generate both opportunity and high rates of firm failure. This course will examine technology companies such as Netflix, Google, Adobe, Eli Lilly, etc. and explore the questions: Why do some technology leaders fail, and how do technology innovators successfully take on and replace incumbent firms? This course will discuss how to design and lead innovative organizations and teams to develop new products and identify opportunities for new products and market segments and effective strategies for managing intellectual property.#
&NBA 6682 | Crisis Communications for Business Leaders&
#Business leaders today constantly face crises that threaten their company's reputation. Such defining moments require effective crisis communication to mitigate negative effects, build trust with the organization's internal and external audiences and navigate through the crisis gracefully and effectively towards resolution. In this course you will learn to anticipate and appreciate the complexities and challenges of brand reputation management during a crisis and develop strategies and techniques to communicate with various constituencies, especially the media/public, employees and major stakeholders. You will apply principles of effective crisis communication management through a simulation, and will develop message maps for emergency and other crisis scenarios. Course work includes readings, case analyses, and simulations.#
&NBA 6690 | Building a Consumer Internet Business&
#Building almost any consumer-facing business at scale requires using the internet for core operations around attracting and engaging users, and generating revenue. Even traditionally "offline" industries, such as transportation and education, have been deeply disrupted by the deployment of consumer-facing internet services, by both new entrants and incumbents. This trend has been accelerated by the Covid-19 pandemic and the social distancing steps taken to contain it. In this course, we study key themes relevant to building a successful consumer-facing internet business - (1) user growth and engagement, (2) monetization, and (3) leveraging platforms.#
&NBA 6765 | Strategy & Management Consulting Practicum&
#No description available.#
&NBA 6820 | Negotiation I: Negotiation Essentials&
#Negotiation is the art and science of securing an agreement between people who have some conflicting interests.#
&NBA 6860 | Startup Learning Series&
#An introduction of core concepts encountered in entrepreneurial businesses. The class is designed to broadly prepare students for working in start-up entrepreneurial environments and assist in fostering a like mindset. The course consists of lectures, guest speakers and a short written paper. By the end of the course, students will be able to discuss topics and issues related to beginning and running start-up companies. Participants will understand terminology and general concept categories including idea validation and market assessment, product and marketing strategy, networking, team selection culture and team building, legalities formation issues, business partnerships, marketing tactics, patents trademarks copyrights and financing business.#
&NBA 6870 | Leading Across Differences: Understanding Identity, Dialogue, and Influence&
#As a leader in any organizational context, your ability to collaborate with a diverse range of colleagues is a key driver of individual influence and collective success. Through a highly interactive and engaging process known as intergroup dialogue, this course will provide students with an opportunity to: recognize how social identities shape experiences in academic and workplace settings, public image, and approaches to leadership; develop and apply critical dialogue skills in order to have meaningful communication and effective collaboration across social, cultural and power difference; and identify and act upon opportunities for exerting influence to create more equitable and inclusive interpersonal interactions and team/organizational structures. The primary assignments for this course are readings and written reflections with class participation being a significant portion of the grade.#
&NBA 6880 | Corporate Bankruptcy and Restructuring&
#This course develops the framework for evaluating and managing firms' assets and liabilities in financial distress, including periods of formal bankruptcy and restructuring. It takes the perspective of managers as well as that of capital market participants ― e.g., distressed-debt investors, analysts, legal professionals, regulators ― that monitor and evaluate corporate policies in distress situations. The course will do so going beyond standard textbook coverage, making sense of practice and available research on financial distress, bankruptcy and reorganizations, looking at what professionals think and act, as well as in-depth study of real-world situations. All of these elements are integrated and analyzed with rigorous method. Our ultimate goal is to understand the objectives different economic agents mean to achieve given the institutional constraints they face in distress situations.#
&NBA 6910 | Physical Product Entrepreneurship&
#The Physical Product Entrepreneurship course introduces students to the renaissance in physical product development created by the emergence of new desktop manufacturing technologies, small-scale production, and internet based market aggregation all combined with Lean Startup principals. Unlike an engineering course that focuses on the "nuts and bolts" of creating a physical product this course will examine the creation of the product business itself rather than the actual device. This course is appropriate for the student exploring the creation of a hardware startup as well as students pursuing a career in product management at a physical product company. In this course, students will form teams and take a product idea through all stages of product development - business model development, prototyping, funding, manufacturing and fulfillment. Topics covered will include current product development ecosystem, Intellectual property, manufacturing and materials, scaling, roles, core documentation, and more.#
&NBA 6921 | Artificial Intelligence for Marketing Strategy&
#With the availability of large, fine-grained traces of consumer behavior, artificial intelligence is increasingly deployed to automate marketing tasks by personalizing consumer experiences. This course is focused on demystifying the artificial intelligence hype by giving you a high-level understanding of how artificial intelligence works, and what it can (and cannot) do well. The course will involve a mixture of lectures, lecture-style case studies, and hands-on exercises in class.#
&NBA 6950 | Game Theory and Business Strategy&
#Game theory is a systematic tool of analysis when a situation involves more than one interest groups. Strategic interactions among these groups often lead to interesting and unexpected outcomes. The key to good business decision lies in the ability to think in the shoes of others. This course delivers the basic concepts and tools of game theory with focus on intuition and applications. We will encounter some simple algebra, but math is not the focal point.#


$NBAY | Graduate Management Business Admin NYT$
&NBAY 5020 | Managerial Reporting&
#This course focuses on using internal organizational data to improve decision making. In this class, we discuss cost behavior, the use of cost information for internal decision making, behavioral impacts on management planning and control, budgeting, variance analysis, and the measurement and management of innovation and customer relationships. Instruction is a mixture of lecture and case discussion. Grading is based on exams, assignments, and class contribution.#
&NBAY 5180 | Design Thinking&
#In today's business landscape, creative problem solving has become a critical tool for leaders to drive innovation and transformation across different industries. Design has rapidly emerged as a driver for innovation, organizational change, and growth. Design Thinking has been adopted by major consulting firms, large corporations, tech start-ups, and NGOs. The course offers an opportunity to learn, practice, and enhance design skills through a 'deep dive.' Structured around project-based teamwork, fostering collaboration is crucial. Students focus on exploring human-centered innovation using clear, hands-on frameworks. With support from selected readings, case studies, and insights from guest speakers across various industries, the course ensures a comprehensive understanding of design and innovation thinking and methods.#
&NBAY 5295 | Future of Work&
#This integrative course is designed for advanced MBA students to develop an understanding of the drivers changing the nature of work, jobs, management, and leadership, explore the primary dimensions reshaping work and careers, and to prepare students to lead large organizations and startups with an understanding of these new dynamics.#
&NBAY 5400 | Culture Media Tech Intensive&
#Digital technologies are changing how consumers interact and engage with the information, arts, and entertainment industries, significantly disrupting these markets, and in turn, gradually altering the fabric of society. At the same time, markets for cultural goods are complex and difficult to navigate, build, and maintain. Business leaders and entrepreneurs in these markets must, therefore, understand the structure and functioning of these markets and the corresponding ecosystem in order to sustainably capture economic value and maximize societal impact in the face of disruptive change, potentially by harnessing those same technological advances. The Culture & Media-Tech Intensive will explore and understand these disruptions and their strategic and cultural implications for business leaders, entrepreneurs, as well as public institutions and society through conceptual frameworks, tools and methods, and practical application of these concepts and tools in real-world projects. Students will analyze cases of organizations in a wide range of industries such as art, fashion/online retail, games, publishing/media, and theater to explore and understand the economic, organizational, and strategic underpinnings of audience/market-building and retention by media and culture firms, markets, and institutions operating in the digital context. The learning from classroom concepts and tools and methodologies will be supplemented by practical insights provided by the real-world projects and guest speakers.#
&NBAY 5550 | Entrepreneurship and Alternative Finance in Emerging Economies&
#Economic and financial development are inextricably intertwined. Unless companies have sufficient access to financial resources, they are unable to grow, become more productive and create new jobs. Entrepreneurial startups face particularly important challenges. In the early phases of their life cycle, few, if any, young firms have enough tangible assets that they can pledge as collateral. As a result, these companies usually find it difficult to borrow from banks. While this is true in advanced economies, this challenge is often unsurmountable in emerging economies. At the same time, however, startups tend to be particularly innovative. Without transformational entrepreneurs who have access to sufficient funding, it is difficult for emerging economies to foster technological change and productivity growth through a process of creative destruction. As a result, underdeveloped financial systems are generally seen as a major impediment to economic growth.#
&NBAY 5600 | FinTech Intensive Practicum&
#The goal of the Fintech Intensive is to immerse students in the emerging Financial Technology sector.  We will explore the landscape, analyze past moves, discuss current trends, and identify future opportunities, while discussing real problems and solutions at start-ups, traditional financial services firms, and the VC and consulting communities which serve them.#
&NBAY 5640 | Sales and Business Development&
#Sales and Business Development provides an overview of the principles and practices of direct sales and business development leveraging research, practical and experiential resources. Classes include instructor-driven content, expert practitioner guests, and experiential exercises. Participants will develop a go-to-market sales strategy for their startup projects as a final deliverable for the class.#
&NBAY 5710 | Cryptocurrencies and Blockchains&
#No description available.#
&NBAY 6031 | Strategies for Sustainability&
#The world has become increasingly focused on transitioning to a more sustainable future and that presents opportunities for business leaders. This course will explore "ESG" and "sustainability" and build the case for them as a business imperative. It has been designed for students pursuing careers in technology with the conviction that command of this material will lead to better outcomes on the job. Following a series of foundation-setting sessions, we'll leverage case studies and guest lecturers to learn about: (1) "Innovators" focused on sustainability as a value proposition and core commitment; (2) "Investors" seeking outsized financial returns by supporting sustainability-related businesses; and (3) "Incumbents" working to adjust their business models to capitalize on growing interest in sustainability. By the end of the course, students will be able to explain how environmental and social topics create opportunities and risks and how companies and investors can make sustainability a growth driver.#
&NBAY 6320 | Core Leadership Skills for a VUCA World&
#Core Leadership Skills for a VUCA World is designed to provide students with an opportunity to expand their knowledge and understanding of the key leadership skills required for success in today's volatile, uncertain, complex, and ambiguous business world through discussion and interaction with an experienced practitioner and former leader of the United States Army. The course will be comprised of four modules: 1) Leadership Principles for a Volatile, Uncertain, Complex and Ambiguous World; 2) Developing and Communicating Vision and Strategy; 3) Setting Conditions for Success; and, 4) Character and Leadership. Coursework to include readings, discussion, and a final paper.#
&NBAY 6570 | Business Models&
#What does it take to make an idea or concept into a successful commercial undertaking? Well, a whole lot - a great product in a compelling market, a strong team with determination, and most certainly a sound business model. A business model defines how a company creates value with key resources and processes, how that value is delivered to customers, and ultimately how the company makes profits for shareholders. This course will cover different business model types as they evolve through a company's growth as well as the implications communicated via its financial models.#
&NBAY 6600 | Great Books V2.0: Lessons for Living and Leading in a Digital World&
#This is a course modeled on a "core curriculum" comprising foundational texts that provide a comprehensive and shared base of knowledge that enables students to critically examine the role of technology, and by extension, their own role as leaders in the current social, economic, and political context. Like any 'Great Books' course, this course aims to prepare informed and active leaders for the greater good in the digital era. The books we will read in this seminar-style, discussion-based course are both cheerleaders and challengers of technology and business and the classroom discussions of the merits and demerits of the arguments in these books will help students learn about both the impact of technology on business and in society as well as how to mitigate the negative and augment the positive consequences. It will also build students' abilities to analyze topics and construct and articulate arguments.#
&NBAY 6630 | Behavioral Economics in Decision Making&
#This course on behavioral economics delves into its growing influence in business, particularly in product design, customer experiences, and managerial decision-making. Designed to cater to diverse student backgrounds and career goals, the course begins by exploring key theories and insights in behavioral economics. It then transitions to practical applications within business contexts. Emphasizing the applied application of behavioral economics insights, the course includes case studies for in-class discussion and hands-on projects like behavioral audits, A/B test design, and proposing behavioral solutions. It is particularly beneficial for students aspiring to careers in product development, data science, consulting, product marketing, or entrepreneurship.#
&NBAY 6710 | Ethical Decision Making in Management&
#Poor moral judgment can ruin a manager's career or even sink a company. In general, an organization cannot survive without the trust of numerous stakeholders, and ethical lapses destroy trust and threaten vital stakeholder relationships. In today's volatile and fiercely competitive business environment, a manager must be able to identify and effectively resolve ethical issues that inevitably arise in the pursuit of business (and career) objectives. This course is designed to enhance students' skills in moral reasoning as it applies to managerial decision making. It thus examines normative concepts and principles that typically enter into moral reasoning and uses those concepts and principles in analyzing real-world cases. Discussions are designed to help students understand the moral issues confronting the decision makers in the cases and explore how those issues might be addressed in ethically responsible ways.#
&NBAY 6820 | Negotiation Essentials&
#Negotiation is the art and science of securing an agreement between people who have some conflicting interests.#
&NBAY 6920 | Machine Learning Applications in Business&
#The purpose of this class is to introduce you to fundamental concepts in data science & machine learning (ML) and prepare you for your career path as an entrepreneur or various business roles (e.g. product manager, marketing, operations, consulting…etc) in for-profit & non-profit organizations. This course differs from the classes offered from the engineer side in that we will use a business-centric approach, where we first begin with the business problem to be solved, and then we cover the technical methodologies to solve the context-specific use cases. Throughout the course I will teach you a decision-making framework to unite the various disparate use cases under a common thread. This framework draws upon my years of experience as both an AI researcher and as a business consultant. I have been fortunate to apply ML to various business contexts, from Silicon Valley startups to the Fortune 500, from private equity to non-profit organizations, and I am actively using and evolving this framework in my current role as an entrepreneur in my own AI startup. I will show you how to use this framework using a mixture of business case studies, real-world context data sets, lectures, and guest speakers. My hope is that you will leave this course with the skills to assemble the talent/resources to tackle the data science and ML challenges that you will encounter when you work for large firms or starting your ventures.#


$NCC | Graduate Management Common Core$
&NCC 4530 | Marketing Management&
#This course introduces students to the basic principles of marketing management. The course will familiarize students with all the key concepts in the field, including marketing strategy, marketing analysis (i.e., customer analysis, competitor analysis, and company analysis), and marketing mix (product/ pricing/ advertising and promotion, and distribution). The course will employ a mix of lectures and field-based reading materials to introduce these principles.  A major component of the course will focus on case discussions that will provide students an opportunity to apply the marketing principles by critically analyzing real-world marketing scenarios.#
&NCC 5010 | Data Analytics and Modeling&
#This course will expose you to introductory statistics and data analysis techniques for understanding business situations and improving business decisions under uncertainty. Specific topics are data visualization, probability, sampling, confidence intervals, hypothesis testing, regression, prediction and causality, AI, and data ethics.#
&NCC 5080 | Managing Operations&
#Focuses on managing processes: actions that convert inputs into outputs. Almost any business function can be modeled as a network of processes. The first part of the course examines processes, both individually and as part of a larger system. It also covers queuing theory and Monte Carlo simulation, both of which are particularly helpful for analyzing process capabilities. The second part of the course analyzes how goods and services are produced. In particular, it examines quality and lean operations, inventory and forecasting, and supply chain management. The second part also covers constrained optimization models, which provides information about handling finite resources. An overall common course theme is the deleterious effect of variability (in demand, supply, quality, or capacity) in complex systems.#
&NCC 5500 | Financial Accounting&
#Introductory accounting course that examines the subject from the viewpoint of users external to the organization. Topics include transaction analysis; the accounting cycle; financial-statement preparation, use, and analysis; revenue recognition and cost measurement; present value; and problems in financial-accounting disclosure.#
&NCC 5530 | Marketing Management&
#This course introduces students to the basic principles of marketing management. The course will familiarize students with all the key concepts in the field, including marketing strategy, marketing analysis (i.e., customer analysis, competitor analysis, and company analysis), and marketing mix (product/ pricing/ advertising and promotion, and distribution). The course will employ a mix of lectures and field-based reading materials to introduce these principles.  A major component of the course will focus on case discussions that will provide students an opportunity to apply the marketing principles by critically analyzing real-world marketing scenarios.#
&NCC 5580 | Managing Operations&
#Operations Management is the design and management of processes that transform inputs into finished goods or services. All organizations have operations that directly affect their ability to execute on their specified strategies. This course prepares students to think analytically and managerially about operations processes, and to use the tools and intuition they acquire to ensure that the operations in production and service systems support the business strategies for these systems. A process view of operations will be used to analyze different key operational dimensions such as capacity analysis, service operations management, quality management, inventory management and supply chain management.#


$NEPAL | Nepali$
&NEPAL 1122 | Elementary Nepali II&
#This course is intended for beginners of the Nepali language. The emphasis is given on continuation of learning basic grammar structures, and the four basic skills of language learning: speaking, listening, reading, and writing, using culturally up-to-date materials and texts.#
&NEPAL 2202 | Intermediate Nepali Conversation II&
#Intermediate instruction in spoken grammar and verbal comprehension skills, with special attention to developing technical vocabularies and other verbal skills appropriate to students' professional fields.#
&NEPAL 2204 | Intermediate Nepali Composition II&
#Systematic review of written grammar and reading comprehension, with special attention to the technical vocabularies, necessary writing skills, and published materials typical of advanced students' professional fields.#
&NEPAL 3302 | Advanced Nepali II&
#Reading of advanced texts, together with advanced drill on the spoken language.#


$NES | Near Eastern Studies$
&NES 1312 | Introduction to Urdu Script&
#This class is an introductory class for beginners. This course will teach students how to listen, speak, read and write Urdu through vocabulary, grammar, oral and written activities, with an emphasis on reading and writing basic Urdu. The course begins by introducing the alphabet and their combinations. In addition to learning the script we will also introduce the basic knowledge and background on Urdu culture.#
&NES 1968 | The Perception of Places in Past and Present: from Landscape Archaeology to Virtual Reality&
#The landscapes and built environments that surround us are not merely silent, neutral backgrounds for objects and events.  Instead, they can be viewed as agents that create multiple layers of meaning: they embody previous human and non-human experiences, political beliefs, cultural values, and emotional attachments. Peeling back these spatial-temporal layers can enhance our understanding and appreciation of the world around us on both macro- and micro-scales. This course will explore the concept of perceiving and comprehending places—ancient and modern, real and virtual—from archaeological, anthropological, and philosophical perspectives. Students will hone their writing skills through analytical papers and creative writing essays that will reflect on academic works, museum collections, and popular media such as TED talks.#
&NES 2202 | Intermediate Urdu Reading and Writing II&
#This course is designed to develop competence in Urdu reading and writing for students with a first-year knowledge of Hindi and knowledge of Urdu script. The goal of this course is to improve listening, speaking, reading and writing abilities in Urdu. By the end of the course, students will have the ability to read articles, write short stories and translate Urdu writings. This course may be taken concurrently with Intermediate Hindi.#
&NES 2204 | Introduction to Quranic Arabic&
#This course is designed for students who are interested in reading the language of the Qur'an with accuracy and understanding. The first week (4 classes) will be devoted to an introduction of the history of the Qur'an: the revelation, collection, variant readings, and establishment of an authoritative edition. The last week will be devoted to a general overview of "revisionist" literature on the Qur'an. In the remaining 12 weeks, we will cover all of Part 30 (Juz' 'Amma, suuras 78-114) and three suuras of varying length (36, 19, and 12).#
&NES 2367 | Humanitarianism: A Counter-History&
#This course is a counter-history of modern humanitarianism, humanitarian law, and human rights, with perspectives from the Near East. Humanitarianism aspires to fulfill the promise of human rights. It envisions a world based on peace among nations, individual liberties, and the sanctity of life – and of markets. To that end, what means are justified? During this semester, we will critically analyze the ideology of human rights, examine the practices of humanitarian rescue, and question the necessity of humanitarian violence. We will scrutinise the ideological and material entanglements of humanitarianism with the forces of empire, nations, and markets, and how humanitarianism shaped the peoples and borders of the modern Near East. We will discuss how the demands for solidarity, equality, and justice challenge and subvert the work of humanitarianism. In doing so, we will consider how the atrocities of the past and the pursuit of justice haunt our turbulent present.#
&NES 2555 | Sex and Sexuality in Islam&
#This course will introduce students to the study of sex and sexuality in the medieval and early modern Islamic World, ending at the dawn of the twentieth century; we will begin with the study of desire in pre-Islamic and early-Islamic poetry and end with the study of the impact of colonialism on the family, the home and morality across the Islamic world. Students will read (in English) from the Qur'an, the sayings of the Prophet Muhammad, obscene and chaste poetry, erotological works, medical treatises, moral condemnations of sex, legal case studies, erotic stories and travel literature. Students will also engage with modern scholarship on the history of sex and sexuality in the Islamic world. Major topics of study will include: the composition of the family across time and space, the intersection between slavery and sexuality, homosexuality and homoerotic desire in the premodern world, marriage and adultery, questions of consent and sexual violence in law and storytelling, and the discrepancies between law, morality and social practice.#
&NES 2644 | Introduction to Judaism&
#This course is an introduction to Jewish identities, values, and practices from the ancient to modern era. Organized thematically, it examines Judaism as a religious phenomenon, with a particular emphasis on its cultural and textual diversity across three millennia. Themes covered include creation, Sabbath, prayer, Jerusalem, pious customs, magic, reincarnation, revelation, among others. Throughout the semester students perform close readings of a wide selection of Jewish texts from the Bible, Talmud, kabbalah (mysticism), philosophy, liturgy, and modern Jewish thought. In what ways are these various traditions of Judaism interrelated and/or in tension with one another? In the face of the Jewish history's tremendous diversity, what is it that has unified Judaism and the Jewish people over the centuries? By exploring these types of questions, this course examines the appropriateness of defining Judaism as a religion, an ethnicity, a civilization, and/or a culture. Readings include introductory-level textbooks and essays, as well as a range of primary source materials in translation.#
&NES 2661 | Ancient Ships and Seafaring: Introduction to Nautical Archaeology&
#A survey of the history and development of ships and seafaring as revealed by shipwrecks, boat burials, texts, art, and other evidence. The role of nautical technology and seafaring among the maritime peoples of the ancient Mediterranean world-Canaanites, Minoans, Mycenaeans, Phoenicians, Hebrews, Greeks, and Romans-and the riverine cultures of Mesopotamia and Egypt is addressed. The survey stretches from the earliest evidence for Mediterranean seafaring around 10,000 bce to the first transatlantic voyages in the 15th century, including Arab, Viking, and European explorers, and the birth of modern capitalism in the Italian Maritime Republics. Along the way, economics, war, exploration, cult, life at sea, and colonization are discussed.#
&NES 2688 | Cleopatra's Egypt: Tradition and Transformation&
#Following the conquests of Alexander, the ancient civilization of Egypt came under Greek rule. This period is best known for its famous queen Cleopatra, the last independent ruler of ancient Egypt. But even before Cleopatra's life and death, the Egypt that she governed was a fascinating place – and a rich case study in cultural interactions under ancient imperialism. This course explores life in Egypt under Greek rule, during the three centuries known as the Ptolemaic period (named after Cleopatra's family, the Ptolemaic dynasty). We will examine the history and culture of Ptolemaic Egypt, an empire at the crossroads of Africa, the Near East, and the Mediterranean. We will explore the experiences of Egyptians, Greeks, and others living in this multi-cultural, multi-ethnic, and multi-linguistic society. Finally, we will investigate the ways that Ptolemaic Egypt can shed light on modern experiences of imperialism, colonialism, and globalization.#
&NES 2722 | Of Saints, Poets, and Revolutionaries: Medieval and Modern Iran and Central Asia&
#From the poet-kings of medieval Persia to the trading networks of the famed "Silk Road" to the wandering mystics of Herat to the constitutional revolution of Iran to the colonial and post-colonial occupations of contemporary Afghanistan, this course offers a broad cultural and political history of Iranian and Turkic Central Asia.  In addition, we will explore the highly complex intellectual, artistic, and architectural trends and "cross-cultural" exchanges that formed the backbone of many disparate Iranian-Turkic cultures.#
&NES 3212 | Philosophy in the Islamic World (800-1400)&
#An introduction to some of the major thinkers and philosophical developments in the Islamic world from the 9th to the 14th centuries CE. Figures include Muslim thinkers such as Al-Kindī, Al-Rāzī, Al-Fārābī, Ibn Sīnā (Avicenna), Al-Ghazālī, and Ibn Rushd (Averroes) as well as important representatives of the Jewish tradition such as Moses ben Maimon (Maimonides). Themes include philosophical theology (the existence and nature of God, God's relation to the created world, prophecy, the place of reason in religion), metaphysics (the nature of existence, fundamental ontology, causality), mind and knowledge (the nature and mechanisms of cognition, our knowledge of ourselves and the world), and ethics and political philosophy (how best to live and organize the state).#
&NES 3448 | Islamic Mysticism: Life, Love, and History&
#Sufism, popularly understood as Islamic mysticism, is a loose name given to a broad and diverse collection of beliefs, practices and groups that range and vary across time and space. Going from a small and largely secretive group of mystical practitioners to a mainstream form of piety in the late medieval period, Sufism has a fascinating history, filled with intrigue, controversy, conflict and interesting characters. In this course, students will delve deep into the history of Sufism and read widely from across the Sufi and anti-Sufi traditions. Concentration will be given to practical questions of how Sufis saw themselves and their relationship to God and the world, how they built mystic community, spurned or embraced family life, interacted with mainstream society, and engaged in controversial erotic practices. Across the course, we will read Sufi histories and biographies, poetry, introductory treatises, as well as anti-Sufi polemics and stories.#
&NES 3519 | History of State and Society in Modern Iran: Through Literature and Film&
#In the conditions of strict censorship and numerous limitations on various forms of political organization and activism, literature and cinema, especially Iran's internationally acclaimed art cinematography, have been the major outlets through which the social and political concerns of the Iranian society have been voiced throughout the modern period. The course explores major themes and periods in Iran's transition from the secular state of the Pahlavi dynasty to the religious state of the Islamic Republic in the 20th and 21st centuries. We will focus on social as well as political themes including the Anglo-Russo-American Occupation of Iran, the 1979 Islamic Revolution, U.S.-Iranian relations, Iraq-Iran War, the Green Movement and the crisis of Islamic government, Images of the West in Iran, Modern Youth Culture, Gender segregation, and the struggle between modernity and traditionalism in contemporary Iran. We will watch selected Iranian documentary and feature films and draw on modern Persian literature but will approach them not as art forms but as reflections of major socio-economic, political, and religious phenomena in Iran's modern history. We will read and watch what the Iranians wrote and produced, read and watched, in order to view and explain Iran and its relations with the West through the Iranian eyes. We will examine how the Iranians perceived themselves and the others, how they viewed their own governments and the West, what issues inspired and shaped their outlook outside the official censorship during the period in question. All readings are in English translation and the films are with English subtitles. The course includes lectures deconstructing political, religious, and social evolution of modern Iran as well as regular class discussions where we will address the issues in question from a variety of perspectives.#
&NES 3523 | Antisemitism, Islamophobia, Racism&
#Islamophobia and Judeophobia are ideas and like all ideas they have a history of their own. Although today many might think of Islamophobia or Judeophobia as unchangeable—fear of and hatred for Islam and Muslims or Judaism and Jews—these ideas and the social and political practices informed by them have varied greatly over time and place. They even intersected during the Middle Age and in Ottoman times when "the Jew" was frequently represented as allied with "The Muslim". The first part of this course traces the history, trajectory, and political agency of Judeophobia and Islamophobia in texts and other forms of culture from late antiquity through the present. The second part of the course is devoted to modernity and the present especially in Europe and the United States focusing on representational practices—how Muslims/Islam and Jews/Judaism are portrayed in various discourses including the media, film and on the internet. We will investigate how these figures (the Muslim, the Jew) serve as a prism through which we can understand various social, political and cultural processes and the interests of those who produce and consume them.#
&NES 3530 | A Mediterranean Society and Its Culture&
#This course examines the cultural and historical interaction of Muslims and Jews from the emergence of Islam in the seventh century through the classical age of Islam down to the turn of the thirteenth century. The intersection of the two cultures (scriptural, spiritual, intellectual, literary, communal, and interpersonal) and members of their respective religious communities will be studied through readings of primary texts (in translation). The course will conclude with some brief reflections on historical memory and the modern and contemporary significance of the two religious communities' interactions during the classical age of Islam.#
&NES 3550 | Origins of Monotheism&
#The Purpose of this course is to trace the development of Monotheism from its origins in Israelite/Canaanite polytheism. We will examine worship of the God, Yahweh and other deities in ancient Israel, and will trace the long and complicated process by which Yahweh became the sole deity to be formally accepted within Judaism. Using biblical evidence as well as inscriptional and archaeological evidence from Israel and elsewhere in the ancient Near East, we will address the question of why the Israelites eventually rejected deities such as Baal, Asherah, El and others, and how imagery associated with these deities informs biblical descriptions of Yahweh. We will explore the ways in which a small group of Jerusalem elites helped shape the monotheistic tradition that has been inherited in the West, and will consider the political, social and theological implications of this transformation.#
&NES 3588 | Archaeology and the Bible&
#The purpose of the course is to place the Bible within the context of a larger ancient world that can be explored by systematic excavation of physical remains. Students will become familiar with archaeological excavations and finds from ancient Syria-Palestine from 10,000 bce to 586 bce. We will explore this archaeological evidence on its own terms, taking into consideration factors such as archaeological method and the interpretive frameworks in which the excavators themselves work, as well as the implications of this body of evidence for understanding the complexity and diversity of biblical Israel.#
&NES 3722 | From Respectability to Messianism? Aspects of Modern Jewish Nationalism&
#Students will practice critical, close reading and examination of historical primary sources that are essential for the study of modern Jewish nationalism and statehood. In our discussions, we will identify influential historical ideas within different genres of texts (personal, journalistic, commercials, political, literary, etc.) and critically combine social history and theory, literary understanding and theory, and intellectual history. Throughout the course, special attention will be given to ideas of class and status and their implications on the formation and change of Jewish and Israeli nationalism over the years. Students will consider key concepts of class theory and engage in comparatively examining their usefulness as tools for their historical understanding of the texts analyzed.#
&NES 3750 | Humanities Scholars Research Methods&
#This course explores the practice, theory, and methodology of humanities research, critical analysis, and communication through writing and oral presentation. We will study the work and impact of humanists (scholars of literature, history, theory, art, visual studies, film, anthropology, gender and sexuality studies), who pose big questions about the human condition. By reading and analyzing their scholarship—critiquing them and engaging their ideas—we will craft our own methods and voices. Students will refine their research methods (library research, note taking, organizing material, bibliographies, citation methods, proposals, outlines, etc.) and design their own independent research project.#
&NES 3802 | Race and Ethnicity in the Ancient World&
#We will consider two basic questions: did the ancient Greeks and Romans have a concept of race or racial identity? If not, what were the dominant collective identities they used to classify themselves and others? We will explore the causes and conditions that gave rise to collective identities that can be described as ethnic and (in some cases) possibly as 'racial' and how these identities worked in their given cultural and political contexts. We will start with Greek identity in the 6th and 5th centuries BCE, then moving to Macedonian identity and the conquests of Alexander the Great, and finally, to the Roman world, where we will explore the question of race and ethnicity within the context of inclusive citizenship. In each of these cultural contexts, we will briefly focus on slavery, examining whether slave identity was at all racialized.#
&NES 4337 | Labor and Employment in the Middle East and North Africa&
#This course introduces students to the history, evolution and trajectory of state-labor relations, labor activism, and the politics of unemployment in the Middle East and North Africa (MENA). As the region with the highest concentration of non-democratic regimes in the world, the MENA provides a rich context for examining state efforts to control interest representation, and workers' struggles for freedom of association. In addition, the region features diverse political economic systems, making it ideal for examining the interaction between resource endowments and labor market dynamics. Finally, the region is ripe for the study of youth activism and the mobilization of the unemployed given that youth unemployment rates are higher in the MENA than any other world region.#
&NES 4354 | Byzantine Archaeology&
#A seminar on the archaeology of the Byzantine Empire, from the late Roman through to the early modern periods. Topics to be covered include: long-term changes in settlement patterns and urban development; the material traces of state and monastic control over productive landscapes; the idea of the border and the nature of its defense; and the fraught relationship between "Byzantine" and "classical" archaeologies.#
&NES 4513 | Textual Ethnography&
#This course explores the implications and significance of using textual materials as anthropological evidence. While participant observation remains the cornerstone of ethnography, literary, archival, and other written works are increasingly being utilized as primary sources within the anthropological project. This course will hence offer an overview of anthropological works that trace the intersections between cultural production and the literary imagination. Rather than consider the literary elements of ethnography itself, we will strive to understand the disparate forms of social phenomena—both knowledge and practices—that arise from texts and textual practices specifically. Examples include analyses of literary cultures, media forms and non-traditional textual sources, bureaucratic structures, the use of archives, and more. Particular attention will be paid to works based in the Middle East and the Islamic world. By examining the different theoretical, political, and ethical considerations of using the written word as ethnographic evidence, we will be able to shed light on the anthropological project as a whole.#
&NES 4520 | Jewish Cities&
#From Jerusalem to Rome, from Shanghai to Marrakesh, Jews and cities have been shaping each other for thousands of years. This course ranges through time and space to examine how Jewish and other "minority" experiences offer a window onto questions of modernity and post-colonialism in intersections of the built environment with migration, urban space, and memory. Readings and film/video encompass historical, ethnographic, visual, architectural and literary materials to offer a broad look at materials on ghettos, empires, cosmopolitanism, tolerance, immigrant enclaves, race and ethnicity.#
&NES 4530 | The Caucasus: Captives, Cultures, Conflicts&
#The Caucasus occupies a distinctive place in the historical and cultural imagination, a region long anchored to tropes of disobedience, punishment, and redemption. It is also a place in which liminality, betwixt and between Europe and Asia, endures as both a perceived geographic imaginary and an experienced condition in the detritus of Persian, Ottoman, Russian, and Soviet imperialisms. This course explores the Caucasus through its anthropology, history, and cultural production, with a particular focus on the Russian conquest, Soviet socialism, and the conflicts and capitalist formations of the post-Soviet decades. We will examine the entanglements of the region's history, political economy, and geopolitics in order to get a sense of the array of forces shaping the Caucasus today.#
&NES 4560 | Theory and Method in Near Eastern Studies&
#In this seminar we will read and discuss a range of theories and methods that have been employed by scholars in the interdisciplinary area of Near Eastern Studies. After giving attention to the historical development of area studies programs and their current status and relevance, we read a wide range of influential works in Near Eastern Studies. Literary theory, anthropology, historiography, archaeology, visual studies, gender theory, and political science are a few of the approaches, methods, and theories we will explore. Mid-semester, we will turn our attention to questions of pedagogy to prepare for a service-learning project. Students will design a study unit on a Near Eastern cultural artifact for local high school students. Continuing in our exploration of engaged scholarship, we will examine the use of new forms, such as the graphic novel to represent Near Eastern studies scholarship. We will also explore new developments in digital humanities research methods.#
&NES 4992 | Independent Study, Undergraduate Level&
#For undergraduates who wish to obtain research experience or do extensive reading on a special topic. Students select a topic in consultation with the faculty member who has agreed to supervise the course.#
&NES 4998 | Senior Honors Essay&
#Each fall, a small number of highly qualified seniors enter the Near Eastern Studies Honors Program. The Honors Program is open to NES majors who have done superior work and who wish to devote a substantial part of their senior year to advanced, specialized, independent research and writing of a thesis. Successfully completing an honors thesis will require sustained interest, exceptional ability, diligence, and enthusiasm. Students must also take two honors courses NES 4998 in fall and NES 4999 in spring, in addition to the regular major requirements. While admission to the Honors Program and completion of a thesis do not guarantee that students will be awarded honors in Near Eastern Studies, most students find the experience as intellectually rewarding as it is rigorous.#
&NES 4999 | Senior Honors Essay&
#Each fall, a small number of highly qualified seniors enter the Near Eastern Studies Honors Program. The Honors Program is open to NES majors who have done superior work and who wish to devote a substantial part of their senior year to advanced, specialized, independent research and writing of a thesis.  Successfully completing an honors thesis will require sustained interest, exceptional ability, diligence, and enthusiasm. Students must also take two honors courses NES 4998 in fall and NES 4999 in spring, in addition to the regular major requirements. While admission to the Honors Program and completion of a thesis do not guarantee that students will be awarded honors in Near Eastern Studies, most students find the experience as intellectually rewarding as it is rigorous.#
&NES 6330 | A Mediterranean Society and Its Culture&
#This course examines the cultural and historical interaction of Muslims and Jews from the emergence of Islam in the seventh century through the classical age of Islam down to the turn of the thirteenth century. The intersection of the two cultures (scriptural, spiritual, intellectual, literary, communal, and interpersonal) and members of their respective religious communities will be studied through readings of primary texts (in translation). The course will conclude with some brief reflections on historical memory and the modern and contemporary significance of the two religious communities' interactions during the classical age of Islam.#
&NES 6337 | Labor and Employment in the Middle East and North Africa&
#This course introduces students to the history, evolution and trajectory of state-labor relations, labor activism, and the politics of unemployment in the Middle East and North Africa (MENA). As the region with the highest concentration of non-democratic regimes in the world, the MENA provides a rich context for examining state efforts to control interest representation, and workers' struggles for freedom of association. In addition, the region features diverse political economic systems, making it ideal for examining the interaction between resource endowments and labor market dynamics. Finally, the region is ripe for the study of youth activism and the mobilization of the unemployed given that youth unemployment rates are higher in the MENA than any other world region.#
&NES 6354 | Byzantine Archaeology&
#A seminar on the archaeology of the Byzantine Empire, from the late Roman through to the early modern periods. Topics to be covered include: long-term changes in settlement patterns and urban development; the material traces of state and monastic control over productive landscapes; the idea of the border and the nature of its defense; and the fraught relationship between "Byzantine" and "classical" archaeologies.#
&NES 6448 | Islamic Mysticism: Life, Love, and History&
#Sufism, popularly understood as Islamic mysticism, is a loose name given to a broad and diverse collection of beliefs, practices and groups that range and vary across time and space. Going from a small and largely secretive group of mystical practitioners to a mainstream form of piety in the late medieval period, Sufism has a fascinating history, filled with intrigue, controversy, conflict and interesting characters. In this course, students will delve deep into the history of Sufism and read widely from across the Sufi and anti-Sufi traditions. Concentration will be given to practical questions of how Sufis saw themselves and their relationship to God and the world, how they built mystic community, spurned or embraced family life, interacted with mainstream society, and engaged in controversial erotic practices. Across the course, we will read Sufi histories and biographies, poetry, introductory treatises, as well as anti-Sufi polemics and stories.#
&NES 6513 | Textual Ethnography&
#This course explores the implications and significance of using textual materials as anthropological evidence. While participant observation remains the cornerstone of ethnography, literary, archival, and other written works are increasingly being utilized as primary sources within the anthropological project. This course will hence offer an overview of anthropological works that trace the intersections between cultural production and the literary imagination. Rather than consider the literary elements of ethnography itself, we will strive to understand the disparate forms of social phenomena—both knowledge and practices—that arise from texts and textual practices specifically. Examples include analyses of literary cultures, media forms and non-traditional textual sources, bureaucratic structures, the use of archives, and more. Particular attention will be paid to works based in the Middle East and the Islamic world. By examining the different theoretical, political, and ethical considerations of using the written word as ethnographic evidence, we will be able to shed light on the anthropological project as a whole.#
&NES 6519 | History of State and Society in Modern Iran: Through Literature and Film&
#In the conditions of strict censorship and numerous limitations on various forms of political organization and activism, literature and cinema, especially Iran's internationally acclaimed art cinematography, have been the major outlets through which the social and political concerns of the Iranian society have been voiced throughout the modern period. The course explores major themes and periods in Iran's transition from the secular state of the Pahlavi dynasty to the religious state of the Islamic Republic in the 20th and 21st centuries. We will focus on social as well as political themes including the Anglo-Russo-American Occupation of Iran, the 1979 Islamic Revolution, U.S.-Iranian relations, Iraq-Iran War, the Green Movement and the crisis of Islamic government, Images of the West in Iran, Modern Youth Culture, Gender segregation, and the struggle between modernity and traditionalism in contemporary Iran. We will watch selected Iranian documentary and feature films and draw on modern Persian literature but will approach them not as art forms but as reflections of major socio-economic, political, and religious phenomena in Iran's modern history. We will read and watch what the Iranians wrote and produced, read and watched, in order to view and explain Iran and its relations with the West through the Iranian eyes. We will examine how the Iranians perceived themselves and the others, how they viewed their own governments and the West, what issues inspired and shaped their outlook outside the official censorship during the period in question. All readings are in English translation and the films are with English subtitles. The course includes lectures deconstructing political, religious, and social evolution of modern Iran as well as regular class discussions where we will address the issues in question from a variety of perspectives.#
&NES 6530 | The Caucasus: Captives, Cultures, Conflicts&
#The Caucasus occupies a distinctive place in the historical and cultural imagination, a region long anchored to tropes of disobedience, punishment, and redemption. It is also a place in which liminality, betwixt and between Europe and Asia, endures as both a perceived geographic imaginary and an experienced condition in the detritus of Persian, Ottoman, Russian, and Soviet imperialisms. This course explores the Caucasus through its anthropology, history, and cultural production, with a particular focus on the Russian conquest, Soviet socialism, and the conflicts and capitalist formations of the post-Soviet decades. We will examine the entanglements of the region's history, political economy, and geopolitics in order to get a sense of the array of forces shaping the Caucasus today.#
&NES 6553 | Origins of Monotheism&
#No description available.#
&NES 6560 | Theory and Method in Near Eastern Studies&
#In this seminar we will read and discuss a range of theories and methods that have been employed by scholars in the interdisciplinary area of Near Eastern Studies. After giving attention to the historical development of area studies programs and their current status and relevance, we read a wide range of influential works in Near Eastern Studies. Literary theory, anthropology, historiography, archaeology, visual studies, gender theory, and political science are a few of the approaches, methods, and theories we will explore. Mid-semester, we will turn our attention to questions of pedagogy to prepare for a service-learning project. Students will design a study unit on a Near Eastern cultural artifact for local high school students. Continuing in our exploration of engaged scholarship, we will examine the use of new forms, such as the graphic novel to represent Near Eastern studies scholarship. We will also explore new developments in digital humanities.#
&NES 6588 | Archaeology and the Bible&
#The purpose of the course is to place the Bible within the context of a larger ancient world that can be explored by systematic excavation of physical remains. Students will become familiar with archaeological excavations and finds from ancient Syria-Palestine from 10,000 bce to 586 bce. We will explore this archaeological evidence on its own terms, taking into consideration factors such as archaeological method and the interpretive frameworks in which the excavators themselves work, as well as the implications of this body of evidence for understanding the complexity and diversity of biblical Israel.#
&NES 6700 | Methods in Medieval&
#Topic: Writing Through the Forest in Search of Trees. Hello, Humanities Student! Are you a plotter or a pantser? Not sure? Come and join us to find out, and to gain valuable insight into what kind of a writer you are, and how to manage that writer most effectively and productively. This theme-centered methods seminar, through a communal focus on trees, woods, glens, and copses in the pre-modern world, will hone in on the most indispensable tool in the humanist's belt: writing. From the generation of ideas, to their organization into an outline (or a blueprint, or whatever euphemism we, as a group or as individuals, decide to apply to the initial, tangled pile of yarn) to the first draft. Followed by frank and constructive criticism of the initial draft as a group and in pairs, and then on to the part that all students—really, all humanists…okay, all writers—find to be the greatest struggle: "Your paper has some good ideas, but it really needs a rewrite." Now what do you do? As we write, and rewrite, we will also read widely. In addition to primary sources, scholarly articles and essays, we will include criticism, personal essay, theory, excerpts from fiction, and more, in an effort to open students' writing up to a myriad of possibilities for persuasive and compelling written communication.#
&NES 6722 | Graduate Colloquium&
#A series of lectures on a range of themes in the discipline sponsored by the Department of Near Eastern Studies. Presentations include lectures by invited speakers and works in progress presented by faculty and graduate students.#
&NES 6992 | Independent Study: Graduate Level&
#For graduate students who wish to do intensive reading on a focused topic. Students select a topic in consultation with the faculty member that has agreed to supervise the course.#
&NES 7520 | Jewish Cities&
#From Jerusalem to Rome, from Shanghai to Marrakesh, Jews and cities have been shaping each other for thousands of years. This course ranges through time and space to examine how Jewish and other "minority" experiences offer a window onto questions of modernity and post-colonialism in intersections of the built environment with migration, urban space, and memory. Readings and film/video encompass historical, ethnographic, visual, architectural and literary materials to offer a broad look at materials on ghettos, empires, cosmopolitanism, tolerance, immigrant enclaves, race and ethnicity.#
&NES 7701 | The Aegean and East Mediterranean Bronze Age c. 3000-1000 BCE&
#An exploration of the archaeology and art of the Aegean region and of its neighbors during the Bronze Age, ca. 3000-1000 BCE: the origins and precursors of the Classical World. The course will investigate the emergence of the first complex societies in the Aegean region in the third millennium BCE, and then the development and story of the Minoan and Mycenaean worlds and their neighbors in the second millennium BCE. Topics will include: the Early Bronze Age and the first complex societies in the Aegean (Cyclades, Crete, Greece, Anatolia); the collapse and reorientation around 2200BCE and links with climate change; the first palace civilization of (Minoan) Crete; the Santorini (Thera) volcanic eruption and its historical impact in the Aegean and eastern Mediterranean; the rise of the Mycenaean Greek palaces and the shift into proto-history; the development of an international east Mediterranean trade system; Ahhiyawa and the Hittites; the 'Trojan War'; and the collapse of the Late Bronze Age societies and links with climate change.#


$NMI | Graduate Management Individualized Study$
&NMI 5090 | Big Red MicroEnterprise&
#Big Red Microenterprise (BRM) is a student-managed, experiential learning opportunity overseen by the Center for Sustainable Global Enterprise where graduate student coaches work with promising, but underserved, entrepreneurs in the local community to support inclusive wealth creation and economic development. Launched in 2009, BRM is a unique program which allows students to develop critical general management skills through engagement of real local companies that face acute operational and financial challenges which cut across all business functions. NOTE: BRM managers earn 3 credits per term; BRM coaches earn .5 credits per term.#
&NMI 5570 | Exchange Prog London Sch Econ&
#No description available.#


$NRE | Graduate Management Research$
&NRE 5040 | PhD Seminar in Accounting&
#Accounting and finance are inextricably intertwined. For example, key roles for corporate financial reporting include assisting firms in raising debt and equity capital, improving the efficiency of the capital markets, and facilitating the effective monitoring of corporate managers' investing and financing decisions. This seminar provides a rigorous and integrative exposure to research that addresses economic issues of interest to both the accounting and finance research communities. Topics may include; an introduction to research methods, capital markets research in accounting, and experimental research in accounting.#
&NRE 5150 | PhD Seminar in Behavior Marketing&
#In this special topics course, we will delve into several literatures involving the self and the buying, consuming, or producing of products and services. Some topics we will touch upon are Belk's concept of products as extended self, consumption and social status, dehumanization and objectification of consumers and producers, identity salience, moral identity, the influence of advertising and social media on consumer self-esteem, the influence of self-esteem on consumer behavior, gender relationships in consumer households, and the self in one's native versus a non-native language. In addition to the content of the articles and as opportunities arise, time discussing methodological and general research issues, such as how to triage ideas, how to do ethical and replicable research, and other topics related to becoming a productive experimental researcher. During this course, we will discuss a number of articles. Some articles will be chosen by the instructor. Others will be selected by the students. Students will be assigned to lead the discussion of specific papers.#
&NRE 5220 | Doctoral Seminar in Quantitative Models&
#This sequence of two half-semester courses is designed to introduce students to the key questions and quantitative models and estimation methods commonly used in marketing.#
&NRE 5480 | PhD Seminar in Entrepreneurship&
#PhD Seminar-content changes reqularly.#


$NS | Nutritional Science$
&NS 1220 | Nutrition and the Life Cycle&
#Biology of the life cycle including development, growth, maturation and aging and its impact on nutritional requirements of humans from the zygote to the elderly is considered. How to meet these nutritional requirements is discussed relative to the feeding issues and context of each major life stage. Course emphasizes the critical analyses of beneficial and adverse outcomes of various nutrient intakes and dietary patterns on the nutritional status and well-being through integration of nutrition and other health sciences in understanding nutritional needs during the life cycle.#
&NS 2061 | Site-Specific Preparation for Engaged Learning in Global and Public Health Sciences&
#This course provides pre-engagement preparation tailored to the research project or site where students will complete the experiential learning required for the GPHS major. Students will meet with the faculty member in charge, at a time and place to be arranged.#
&NS 2470 | Food for Contemporary Living&
#During this laboratory course, the understanding of food ingredients and techniques of food preparation is applied to positive nutritional practices and health promotion goals; basic food science and nutrition principles, food safety/sanitation, sensory evaluation, and social-cultural influences on food choices; food preparation, recipe modification, sensory evaluation (taste testing required); basic cooking skills, techniques. Introduction to basic menu planning and meeting nutritional requirements while restricted to a budget. Lab performance and a lab practical factored into final student evaluation; attendance at all labs is expected.#
&NS 2600 | Introduction to Global Health&
#Explore contemporary topics, issues, and controversies in the field of global health through several different perspectives. This course will first introduce the global burden of disease, and then engage students in examining complex social, economic, political, environmental, and biological factors that structure the origins and consequences of global health problems, as well as potential solutions. The three core modules of this course focus on HIV/AIDS, maternal mortality, and water/sanitation and hygiene.#
&NS 3150 | Obesity and the Regulation of Body Weight&
#Multidisciplinary discussion of the causes, effects, and treatments of human obesity. Topics include the biopsychology of eating behavior, the genetics of obesity, the role of activity and energy metabolism, the psychosocial determinants of obesity, anorexia nervosa, therapy and its effectiveness, and social discrimination.Multidisciplinary discussion of the causes, effects, and treatments of human obesity. Topics include the biopsychology of eating behavior, the genetics of obesity, the role of activity and energy metabolism, the psychosocial determinants of obesity, anorexia nervosa, therapy and its effectiveness, and social discrimination.#
&NS 3310 | Human Nutrition and Nutrient Metabolism&
#Examines the biochemical, physiological, molecular and genomic aspects of human nutrition. Covers the topics of food sources, digestion, metabolism and function of nutrients (i.e., carbohydrates, proteins, lipids, vitamins, and minerals). Metabolic and chronic diseases related to nutrition are highlighted throughout the semester.#
&NS 3410 | Human Anatomy and Physiology&
#Introduces human anatomy and physiology by detailing the structure and function of the human body and mechanisms used to maintain homeostasis. Emphasis is given to aspects relevant to the nutritional sciences and medicine. Content includes language of anatomy, cells, tissue, integumentary, respiratory, skeletal, muscular, digestive, nervous, cardiovascular, urinary, and reproductive systems. Clinical examples are provided to highlight the physiology of systems covered. Weekly clinical correlate activities are used to encourage active learning and group discussions. Evaluation is based on attendance class interaction, two take home case studies, weekly quizzes, two preliminaries and a midterm and final.#
&NS 3420 | Human Anatomy and Physiology Laboratory&
#Principles of human anatomy and physiology will be presented using anatomical models, drawings, dissections, and histology as well as non-invasive interactive assessments of physiological functions and review of clinical case studies. Weekly lecture will provide content connections with NS 3410. Emphasis will be on location, recognition, and description of anatomical structures and their relation to function. Content includes anatomical terminology, gross and microscopic anatomy, and regulation of various organ systems. Evaluation based on attendance, two lab practicums, and weekly lab assignments.#
&NS 3600 | Epidemiology&
#This course introduces the principles and methods used in epidemiologic research. NS 3600 will use a combination of didactic lectures, classroom discussions, applied projects, and in-depth case studies to explore epidemiologic research, including disease occurrence, measures of association, causal inference in quantitative research, and applications of epidemiologic methods to global and public health research. Epidemiologic principles in the design, conduct, and interpretation of findings from observational and experimental studies will be explored in detail, including strengths and limitations of study designs. The final project of the course will require integration of methodological concepts with applications to develop a scientific question and design an epidemiologic research study to address a threat to public and global health.#
&NS 4000 | Directed Readings&
#Study that predominantly involves library research and independent reading.#
&NS 4010 | Empirical Research&
#Study that predominantly involves data collection and analysis or laboratory or studio projects.#
&NS 4020 | Supervised Fieldwork&
#Study that involves both responsible participation in a community setting and reflection on that experience through discussion, reading, and writing. Academic credit is awarded for this integration of theory and practice.#
&NS 4030 | Teaching Apprenticeship&
#Study that includes assisting faculty with instruction.#
&NS 4200 | Diet and the Microbiome&
#In this course, students will acquire a present-day overview of the reported effects of diet on the microbiome with an emphasis on metabolic health outcomes. The microbiome field is rapidly evolving, and this course has no textbook; we will mainly be assessing primary literature and scientific reviews. Students will learn to critically analyze the conclusions drawn from microbiome studies to empower them to make informed judgments as new research findings are reported.#
&NS 4210 | Precision Nutrition and Health&
#This course will introduce students to the principles of precision nutrition and its goal to optimize human nutrition and improve human health outcomes throughout the lifespan. Topics to be covered include identification of genetic/epigenetic signatures that alter nutrient requirements, biomarker discovery and application, and the effects of environmental exposures (microbiome, exercise, etc) and/or disease on nutrient needs. The course will cover both molecular and epidemiological aspects of precision nutrition and will highlight advantages and limitations of current precision nutrition approaches in clinical practice. Undergraduate students enroll in NS 4210, and graduate students enroll in NS 6210.#
&NS 4250 | Nutrition Communications and Counseling&
#Students learn the theoretical basis of effective health promotion communications and develop effective nutrition communication skills through application in a variety of settings. Provides hands-on experiences in counseling, educational program development, and oral and written communications.#
&NS 4300 | Proteins, Transcripts, and Metabolism: Big Data in Molecular Nutrition&
#This course will cover fundamental concepts of big data analysis at an introductory level in the context of gene expression at the mRNA and protein levels with a focus on metabolic regulatory networks. Programming in Python and R will be required, but no prior experience is necessary. Programming in this course will focus methods to parse large data sets and perform informatics analyses.#
&NS 4510 | Nutrition and Health Equity&
#This course introduces key structural and social determinants (i.e., sociopolitical context, socioeconomic position, access to healthcare, living and working conditions, food availability, among others) shaping nutrition and health inequities among historically marginalized populations in U.S. society. It is designed to offer advanced undergraduate students and graduate students directed readings and tailored activities to meet the learning objectives. Undergraduates should enroll in NS 4510, and graduate students should enroll in NS 6510.#
&NS 4880 | Applied Dietetics in Food Service Systems&
#Gain experience in facility design; equipment selection, use, and care; job analysis and evaluation; human resources planning; management of financial resources; recipe development and volume food production; computer-assisted management; employee training; and applied safety and sanitation standards. Through planning and executing a themed event, students synthesize and apply knowledge and skills required to operate and manage a foodservice program.  Laboratories are arranged through Cornell Dining and other off-campus sites. Completion of a professional portfolio is required. ServSafe training and examination is conducted; successful completion results in ServSafe manager certification.#
&NS 4990 | Honors Problem&
#All DNS Honors students must complete a total of six credits in NS 4990 Honors Problem. Students must complete three credits of NS 4990 in each of their last two semesters. These credits are supervised by the DNS Honors Program Director and represent both a student's research with their faculty advisor, as well as the program's required writing tasks, and presenting their project in a research symposium. Writing tasks include a progress report, abstract, literature review, full thesis draft, and final thesis. Research activities may include reviewing the literature, writing a proposal, developing research methods, collecting data in the field or laboratory, analyzing data, and writing the honors thesis. Additional research credit is taken as NS 4000, NS 4010, NS 4020, or equivalent.#
&NS 4997 | Experiential Learning in Global and Public Health in Washington, DC&
#This course centers on the student's global and public health internship in Washington DC to engage in an applied and holistic way with the global and public health policy world. Students will contribute to some work of their host organization and identify a particular global and public health policy issue they have encountered in their internship. They will analyze this issue in NS 4997 using guidance provided in their ePortfolios and they will do further analysis on it using complementary frameworks and perspectives gained from the policy and politics course - NS 4998.#
&NS 4998 | Engaged Learning About Policy Making in Washington D.C.&
#The core course at Cornell in Washington is an engaged learning class that focuses on understanding and analyzing the professional experience of being in DC. Its primary purpose is to give students a chance to sunthesize the lessons of their internship work by examining and reflecting on that work, investigating the context and structures of the policy and political world with which they are engaging, and learning and practicing the professional forms of writing that the community uses. This process occurs through readings, written assignments, guest speakers, and signature events. An internship is required for the class.#
&NS 5150 | Obesity and the Regulation of Body Weight&
#Obesity is a complex biological and socioeconomical problem that is multifaceted within each of these broad descriptions. This course provides a comprehensive overview of various influencers and effectors of obesity and body weight regulation. We will examine energy expenditure, genetics, environment, organ physiology, neurological control of hunger, food choice structure, eating behavior, and health disparities. Additionally, this course will examine biomedical and surgical intervention of obesity and associated sequelae. The course is designed to contain lectures with presentation of primary literature and class discussion. We will also have guest lectures to discuss specific topics on obesity and the regulation of body weight!#
&NS 5600 | Epidemiology&
#This course introduces the principles and methods used in epidemiology research. NS 3600|5600 will use a combination of didactic lectures, classroom discussions, applied projects, and in-depth case studies to explore epidemiologic research, including disease occurrence, measures of association, causal inference in quantitative research, and applications of epidemiologic methods to global and public health research. Epidemiologic principles in the design, conduct, and interpretation of findings from observational and experimental studies will be explored in detail, including strengths and limitations of study designs. The final project of the course will require integration of methodological concepts with applications to develop a scientific question and design an epidemiologic research study to address a threat to public and global health.#
&NS 6000 | Special Problems for Graduate Students&
#Emphasizes independent advanced work. Experience in research laboratories in the Division of Nutritional Sciences may be arranged.#
&NS 6160 | Maternal and Child Nutrition Seminar&
#The Maternal and Child Nutrition training program in the Division of Nutritional Sciences, Cornell University, is the longest-standing training program devoted to maternal and child nutrition in the country. Funded by the National Institutes of Health (NICHD), it brings together faculty across the disciplinary spectrum of nutrition – including molecular nutrition, human nutrition and metabolism, community nutrition, and international nutrition – to advance the nutrition and health of mothers and children.#
&NS 6190 | Division of Nutritional Sciences Seminar&
#Lectures on current research in nutrition.#
&NS 6200 | Translational Research and Evidence-Based Policy and Practice in Nutrition&
#This team taught graduate nutrition course addresses the frameworks used in evidenced-based approaches and decision making to set nutrition policy and practice guidelines where emerging and conflicting scientific data are commonplace. The course format is 50% lecture-based with content lectures given by experts in the subject area, and 50% discussion based, with interactive discussions and case-study discussions facilitated by practice and policy guest experts using videoconferencing.#
&NS 6210 | Precision Nutrition and Health&
#This course will introduce students to the principles of precision nutrition and its goal to optimize human nutrition and improve human health outcomes throughout the lifespan. Topics to be covered include identification of genetic/epigenetic signatures that alter nutrient requirements, biomarker discovery and application, and the effects of environmental exposures (microbiome, exercise, etc) and/or disease on nutrient needs. The course will cover both molecular and epidemiological aspects of precision nutrition and will highlight advantages and limitations of current precision nutrition approaches in clinical practice. Undergraduate students enroll in NS 4210, and graduate students enroll in NS 6210.#
&NS 6300 | Proteins, Transcripts, and Metabolism: Big Data in Molecular Nutrition&
#This course will introduce the concepts of big data analysis in the context of transcriptomics and proteomics with a focus on metabolic regulatory networks. Programming in Python will be used, but no prior experience is necessary. Programming will focus on methods to parse large data sets, perform informatics analyses, and build machine learning models. Prior courses in biology and biochemistry are prerequisites. Students must own or have personal access with administrative privileges to a computer with Windows 10 or MacOS 10.14 (or more recent).#
&NS 6320 | Regulation of Macronutrient Metabolism&
#Course provides a comprehensive overview of macronutrient metabolism with an emphasis on issues relevant to human nutrition. Topics include regulation of macronutrient utilization by various tissues in response to food intake, energy stores, and energy expenditure; cellular pathways for integration of nutrient, growth, and stress signals; biological regulation of food intake and energy expenditure; the regulation of utilization of macronutrients for growth; dietary reference intakes for macronutrients; specialized functions of essential amino acids and essential fatty acids; lipoprotein and cholesterol metabolism; and the regulation, or dysregulation, of macronutrient utilization in various disease/physiological states.#
&NS 6510 | Nutrition and Health Equity&
#This course introduces key structural and social determinants (i.e., sociopolitical context, socioeconomic position, access to healthcare, living and working conditions, food availability, among others) shaping nutrition and health inequities among historically marginalized populations in U.S. society. It is designed to offer advanced undergraduate students and graduate students directed readings and tailored activities to meet the learning objectives. Undergraduates should enroll in NS 4510, and graduate students should enroll in NS 6510.#
&NS 6980 | International Nutrition Seminar&
#Discussions and presentations by Cornell faculty, graduate students, and invited outside speakers representing a range of multisectoral perspectives on global nutrition. Topics and themes focus on research, policy, and programs related to nutrition in low- and middle-income countries.#
&NS 7030 | Seminar in Nutritional Sciences&
#This graduate nutrition course addresses the analytic and professional skills required to critique original research publications and make public presentations to a broad audience. Students critically analyze and interpret findings from research articles published in a wide variety of journals related to the field of nutritional sciences. Students present these critiques to a broad multi-disciplinary audience, and participate in the seminars presented by other students.#
&NS 7040 | Grant Writing&
#Interactive course that addresses the knowledge, approach, and professional skills (conceptual, technical, and writing) required to create a successful grant proposal and initiate a career in research. Format is focused around the development, execution, and evaluation of NIH-style grant proposals. Lectures will focus on the development of hypotheses, specific aims, and long term goals, as well as research design and methodology. Issues of human subject and animal experimentation, ethics, and research collaborators are also covered. Students are expected to develop a full-length grant proposal in consultation with their research advisor. Basic guidelines and approach to proposal evaluation and scoring are covered. Course concludes with a mock study section where all proposals are reviewed by the students.#
&NS 8990 | Master's Thesis and Research&
#A course for Division of Nutritional Sciences (DNS) Graduate Students doing research related to completing their Master's degree.#
&NS 9990 | Doctoral Thesis and Research&
#A course for Division of Nutritional Sciences (DNS) Graduate Students doing research related to completing their Doctoral degree.#


$NTRES | Natural Resources$
&NTRES 1201 | Global Water Sustainability&
#This course will cultivate an interdisciplinary, solution-oriented perspective on water resource challenges from local to global scales. Water is central to all of life, yet its management represents a "wicked challenge" in sustainability science because tradeoffs and feedbacks among multiple objectives are commonplace. Readings and parallel mini-lectures from natural and social science instructors will embrace the diversity of perspectives involved in managing water resources, and students will engage in collaborative problem-solving during class to deepen their understanding of each weekly theme. Meetings with case study experts from around the world will ground this dialog in reality, and all students will participate in debate-style examination of major controversies in water sustainability. Reflective writing assignments will encourage students to assess their own role in achieving water sustainability.#
&NTRES 2010 | Environmental Conservation&
#Our lives are touched increasingly by questions about environmental degradation at local, regional, and global scales. Business-as-usual is being challenged. This course stimulates students to go beyond the often-simplistic portraits of environmental dilemmas offered by the mass media to gain a firmer basis for responsible stewardship and informed action on environmental issues. Students will practice and apply critical-thinking skills.#
&NTRES 2201 | Society and Natural Resources&
#The actions of people are crucial to environmental well-being. This course addresses the interrelationships between social phenomena and the natural (i.e., biophysical) environment. It is intended to (1) increase student awareness of these interconnections in their everyday lives; (2) introduce students to a variety of social science perspectives, including sociology, economics, psychology, and political science, that help us make sense of these connections; (3) identify the contributions of each of these perspectives to our understanding of environmental problems; and (4) discuss how natural resource management and environmental policy reflect these perspectives.#
&NTRES 2830 | DNA, Genes and Genetic Diversity&
#Covers molecular, Mendelian and population genetic principles as they relate to population biology and biodiversity.  A laboratory section is devoted to problem solving, computer exercises and discussions.  We will focus on mechanisms generating and shaping genetic variation within and among populations, examine the relation of gene expression, and consider conservation relevance of variation at multiple levels. Recommended as a preliminary to upper-level ecology, evolution, and natural resources management courses.#
&NTRES 3111 | Fish Ecology Laboratory&
#Four field trips are planned to provide hands-on-experience in fish ecology and management. They include a one-weekday Great Lakes experience aboard the USGS Kaho on Lake Ontario, a one-day field trip to a state-of-the-art fish hatchery during the walleye run, a one-day Oneida Lake weekend trip to the Cornell Biological Field Station experiencing fish collection techniques, and a two-hour trip to the Cayuga Inlet to witness the spring run of rainbow trout and possibly lamprey eels. Activities include the use of various fish sampling gears and sample analysis techniques. Each student is required to maintain a written journal describing activities and concepts learned from each field trip that is submitted at the end of the semester.#
&NTRES 3240 | Sustainable, Ecologically Based Management of Water Resources&
#In-depth analyses of those ecological and biological principles relevant to the sustainable management of global fresh and marine water resources. Lectures and discussion integrate scientific literature with current management issues, including water supply, dams, irrigation, and groundwater overdraft, and coastal development. Topics include linkages between hydrologic variability and communities, groundwater-surface connections, flow paths for dispersal, patchily distributed water resources, and water quality controls on organisms, and adaptations to climate change.#
&NTRES 3260 | Applied Conservation Ecology&
#An interactive-field and lab course designed to provide direct experience with some of the most important field methods and analytical techniques used to examine species, ecosystem and community-level function, structure, and value, especially within the context of contemporary conservation ecology and evolutionary theory. Tools include field sampling techniques, resource and conservation mapping, spatial referencing, GIS, measures of biodiversity, and manual and automated techniques for studying soil, stream, forest, terrestrial, and marine biota and related physical factors. The class is designed to provide a strong background in field research methods and theory related to ecological conservation.#
&NTRES 4302 | Environmental Policy Processes III&
#This on-campus and off-campus course sequence focuses on how environmental policy issues move through the federal policy-making process. Students select an environmental policy topic during the fall semester session (NTRES 4300) for analysis during the second part of the course (NTRES 4301). The second session continues course focus on contemporary environmental problems, how they are defined, aggregating interests, agenda-setting, formulating alternative solutions, implementation and evaluation, and roles of lobbyists, advocates, the legislative, executive, judicial branches of government, and other actors. DC activities also include organized meetings with policy makers, advocates and experts as guest panelists. The spring semester session (NTRES 4302) requires presenting an oral policy briefing and writing both short and long policy briefs based on the DC interviews and additional research.#
&NTRES 4601 | Decision Making in Natural Resource Management&
#This course will provide an introduction to the principles and practice of structured decision making and its application in natural resource management. Students will become familiar with methods for finding optimal solutions to decision problems, and will apply these methods to natural resource problems. Students will become familiar with the application of quantitative decision modeling tools: single and multiple-objective trade-off techniques, decision trees, Bayesian belief and decision networks, linear programming, and dynamic optimization.#
&NTRES 4700 | Art and Science of the Mohawk River Watershed&
#This experiential, community-engaged interdisciplinary course will introduce students to a range of artistic and ecological practices to understand, interpret, and communicate past and present environmental issues of the Mohawk River Basin. We will dive deep into current topics related to the river basin using the New York Water Resource Institute's Action Agenda items including A) Understanding inequitable distribution of flood, drought, and water scarcity vulnerability in New York State. B) Exploring traditional ecological knowledge and people's history of the river to help to communicate those knowledge systems. C) Learn about water quality, restoration, and riparian systems.#
&NTRES 4800 | Wildlife Corridor Conservation & Crossing Design&
#Habitat fragmentation is one of the biggest threats to biodiversity conservation. Ecological connectivity conservation is a growing approach to counter fragmentation and enhance landscape and seascape climate resilience. This course will develop comparative case study assessments of wildlife corridors and wildlife crossing designs as examples of connectivity conservation. Students will learn about ecological connectivity, large landscape/seascape conservation, and road ecology.#
&NTRES 4940 | Special Topics in Natural Resources&
#The department teaches "trial" courses under this number. Offerings vary by semester and are advertised by the department before the semester starts. Courses offered under the number will be approved by the department curriculum committee, and the same course is not offered more than twice under this number.#
&NTRES 4960 | Internship in Natural Resources&
#On-the-job learning experience under the supervision of professionals in a cooperating organization. A learning contract is written between the faculty supervisor and the student, stating the learning objectives, conditions of the work assignment, nature of on-the-job supervision, and reporting requirements, including the formal basis on which the faculty supervisor will assign a grade. All 4960 internship courses must adhere to the CALS guidelines at cals.cornell.edu/academics/student-research/internship.#
&NTRES 4961 | Perspectives in Global Development&
#A variety of speakers present seminars on international development topics relating to sustainable development throughout the world. Students attend each seminar and submit a five-page essay at the end of the semester reflecting on the speakers' presentations and analyzing connections between topics.#
&NTRES 4970 | Individual Study in Environmental Social Science and Resource Policy&
#Individual study under faculty supervision. Topics in environmental social science resource policy are arranged depending on the interests of students and availability of staff.#
&NTRES 4971 | Individual Study in Applied Ecology and Conservation Ecology&
#Individual study under faculty supervision. Topics in applied ecology or conservation biology are arranged depending on the interests of students and availability of staff.#
&NTRES 4972 | Individual Study in Ecosystem Science and Biochemistry&
#Individual study under faculty supervision. Topics in ecosystem science and biogeochemistry are arranged depending on the interests of students and availability of staff.#
&NTRES 4980 | Undergraduate Teaching in Natural Resources&
#Designed to give students an opportunity to obtain teaching experience by assisting in labs, field trips for designated sections, discussions, and grading. Students gain insight into the organization, preparation, and execution of course plans through application and discussions with instructor.#
&NTRES 4990 | Undergraduate Research&
#Undergraduate research projects in natural resources; contingent on finding a faculty person to work with.#
&NTRES 6240 | Sustainable Water Resource Management in the Face of Climate Change&
#In-depth analyses of those ecological and biological principles relevant to the sustainable management of global fresh and marine water resources. Lectures and discussion integrate scientific literature with current management issues, including water supply, dams, irrigation, and groundwater overdraft, and coastal development. Topics include linkages between hydrologic variability and communities, groundwater-surface connections, flow paths for dispersal, patchily distributed water resources, and water quality controls on organisms, and adaptations to climate change.Students taking the course for graduate credit are required to meet one additional day each week outside the normal class times in order to participate in a collaborative graduate group project, which includes reading supplemental materials, weekly discussions, data collection/synthesis and write-up.#
&NTRES 6260 | Applied Conservation Ecology&
#An interactive-field and lab course designed to provide direct experience with some of the most important field methods and analytical techniques used to examine species, ecosystem and community-level function, structure, and value, especially within the context of contemporary conservation ecology and evolutionary theory. Tools include field sampling techniques, resource and conservation mapping, spatial referencing, GIS, measures of biodiversity, and manual and automated techniques for studying soil, stream, forest, terrestrial, and marine biota and related physical factors. The class is designed to provide a strong background in field research methods and theory related to ecological conservation.#
&NTRES 6601 | Decision Making in Natural Resource Management&
#This course will provide an introduction to the principles and practice of structured decision making and its application in natural resource management. Students will become familiar with methods for finding optimal solutions to decision problems, and will apply these methods to natural resource problems. Students will become familiar with the application of quantitative decision modeling tools: single and multiple-objective trade-off techniques, decision trees, Bayesian belief and decision networks, linear programming, and dynamic optimization.#
&NTRES 6940 | Special Topics in Natural Resources&
#The department teaches "trial" courses under this number. Offerings vary by semester and are advertised by the department before the semester starts. Courses offered under the number will be approved by the department curriculum committee, and the same course is not offered more than twice under this number.#
&NTRES 6960 | Perspectives in Global Development&
#A variety of speakers present seminars on international development topics relating to sustainable development throughout the world. Students attend each seminar and submit a five-page essay at the end of the semester reflecting on the speakers' presentations and analyzing connections between topics.#
&NTRES 6970 | Graduate Individual Study in Natural Resources&
#Study of topics in natural resources more advanced than, or different from, other courses. Subject matter depends on interests of students and availability of staff.#
&NTRES 7900 | Graduate-Level Thesis Research&
#Thesis research for Ph.D. students only before "A" exam has been passed.#
&NTRES 8900 | Master's Thesis Research&
#Thesis research for master's students.#
&NTRES 9900 | Doctoral-Level Thesis Research&
#Thesis research for Ph.D. candidates after "A" exam has been passed.#


$ORIE | Operations Research & Information Engineering$
&ORIE 3120 | Practical Tools for Operations Research, Machine Learning and Data Science&
#The practical use of software tools and mathematical methods from operations research, machine learning, statistics and data science. Software tools include structured query language (SQL), geographical information systems (GIS), Excel and Visual Basic programming (VBA), and programming in a scripting language (either R or Python). Operations research methods include inventory management, discrete event simulation, and an introduction to the analysis of queuing systems. Machine learning and statistical methods include multiple linear regression, classification, logistic regression, clustering, time-series forecasting, and the design and analysis of A/B tests. These topics will be presented in the context of business applications from transportation, manufacturing, retail, and e-commerce.#
&ORIE 3310 | Optimization II&
#A variety of optimization methods stressing extensions of linear programming and its applications but also including topics drawn from integer programming, dynamic programming, and network optimization. Formulation and modeling are stressed as well as numerous applications.#
&ORIE 3510 | Stochastic Processes for Decision-Making&
#Uses basic concepts and techniques of random processes to construct models for a variety of problems of practical interest. Topics include the Poisson process, Markov chains, renewal theory, models for queuing, and reliability.#
&ORIE 3741 | Learning with Big Messy Data&
#Modern data sets, whether collected by scientists, engineers, medical researchers, government, financial firms, social networks, or software companies, are often big, messy, and extremely useful. This course addresses scalable robust methods for learning from big messy data. We'll cover techniques for learning with data that is messy - consisting of real numbers, integers, booleans, categoricals, ordinals, graphs, text, sets, and more, with missing entries and with outliers - and that is big - which means we can only use algorithms whose complexity scales linearly in the size of the data. We will cover techniques for cleaning data, supervised and unsupervised learning, finding similar items, model validation, and feature engineering.#
&ORIE 4126 | Principles of Supply Chain Management&
#Supply chain management focuses on the flow of products, information, and money through organizations that constitute the supply chain. The course provides an overview of the key principles on which an effective supply chain should be constructed. These principles are presented and illustrated through a collection of cases. These cases are taught using an experiential learning model. Additionally, applications of analytic and simulation tools to the design and operation of supply chains are given.#
&ORIE 4130 | Service System Modeling and Design&
#Service systems arise primarily from the service sector of the economy. Examples are contact centers (also known as call centers), airlines, insurance and healthcare. This course describes techniques that are useful in the analysis and design of such systems. The class is structured around a number of cases. The emphasis is on modeling, solving the models, and interpreting the results. Both operational and strategic decisions are covered through appropriate examples.#
&ORIE 4152 | Entrepreneurship for Engineers&
#No description available.#
&ORIE 4160 | Topics in Data Science and OR&
#Each year, the course will cover a different advanced topic at the intersection of data science and operations research, with the specific topic to be chosen by the instructor that year. The class will entail advanced reading, homework, and course project. Example semester-long topics include: Multi-arm bandit models in ML and OR, Statistical recovery in data science and OR, Graphical models in data science and OR, Causal inference in data science and OR, and Reinforcement learning in data science and OR.#
&ORIE 4600 | Introduction to Financial Engineering&
#This is an introduction to the most important notions and ideas in modern financial engineering, such as arbitrage, pricing, derivatives, options, interest rate models, risk measures, equivalent martingale measures, complete and incomplete markets, etc. Most of the time the course deals with discrete time models.#
&ORIE 4742 | Info Theory, Probabilistic Modeling, and Deep Learning with Scientific and Financial Apps&
#This course is about building and understanding machine learning models for scientific and financial applications. It will cover foundational aspects of information theory and probabilistic inference as they relate to model construction and deep learning. Topics include hamming codes, repetition codes, entropy, mutual information, Shannon information, channel capacity, likelihood functions, Bayesian inference, graphical models, and deep neural networks. The section on deep neural networks will consider fully connected, convolutional, recurrent, and LSTM networks, generative adversarial training, and variational autoencoders.#
&ORIE 4990 | Teaching in ORIE&
#Involves working as a TA in an ORIE course. The instructor assigns credits (the guideline is 1 credit per four hours per week of work with a limit of 3 credits).#
&ORIE 4999 | ORIE Project&
#Project-type work, under faculty supervision, on a real problem existing in some firm or institution. Opportunities in the course may be discussed with the associate director.#
&ORIE 5126 | Principles of Supply Chain Management&
#Supply chain management focuses on the flow of products, information, and money through organizations that constitute the supply chain. The course provides an overview of the key principles on which an effective supply chain should be constructed. These principles are presented and illustrated through a collection of cases. These cases are taught using an experiential learning model. Additionally, applications of analytic and simulation tools to the design and operation of supply chains are given.#
&ORIE 5130 | Service System Modeling and Design&
#Service systems arise primarily from the service sector of the economy. Examples are contact centers (also known as call centers), airlines, insurance and healthcare. This course describes techniques that are useful in the analysis and design of such systems. The class is structured around a number of cases. The emphasis is on modeling, solving the models, and interpreting the results. Both operational and strategic decisions are covered through appropriate examples.#
&ORIE 5132 | Pricing Analytics and Revenue Management&
#The field of Revenue Management (RM) deals with selling a product at the right price, at the right time to the right person. Many industries use revenue management tools to maximize the return on their limited supply of products including e-retail, manufacturing, transportation, entertainment, advertising, etc. For example, e-retailers use RM to decide what assortment of products to show to the customers. Airlines use RM to decide what fare classes should remain open and what fare classes should be closed. Hotels use Revenue management to choose the room rates and to decide how much to overbook. The course will cover different quantitative models in pricing analytics and revenue management including newsvendor models, demand forecasting, network revenue management, choice modeling, assortment optimization, service operations and auctions. We will present ideas and models in the context of different application settings.#
&ORIE 5142 | Systems Analysis Behavior and Optimization&
#This is an advanced course in the application of analytical methodologies and tools to the analysis and optimization of complex systems. On completion of this course, students should be able to use probability and statistics as a modeling and analysis tool for systems exhibiting uncertainty; be able to use algorithms and dynamic programming to model and optimize systems with a recursive structure; be able to use optimization tools to optimize complex systems and tune parameters.#
&ORIE 5160 | Topics in Data Science and OR&
#Each year, the course will cover a different advanced topic at the intersection of data science and operations research, with the specific topic to be chosen by the instructor that year. The class will entail advanced reading, homework, and course project. Example semester-long topics include: Multi-arm bandit models in ML and OR, Statistical recovery in data science and OR, Graphical models in data science and OR, Causal inference in data science and OR, and Reinforcement learning in data science and OR.#
&ORIE 5213 | Discrete Optimization for Urban Planning and Mobility&
#The course is organized around five major case studies on the use of discrete optimization and data (AI at large) for smart cities. Namely, 1) bike sharing, 2) bus transportation planning, 3) fairness in ambulance allocation (and police patrol), 4) downed tree reporting (NYC Department of Parks and Recreation), and 5) parcel delivery.#
&ORIE 5259 | Market Microstructure & Algorithmic Trading: Theory and Practice&
#No description available.#
&ORIE 5270 | Big Data Technologies&
#This course offers a broad overview of computational techniques and mathematical skills useful for data scientists. Topics include: unix shell, regular expressions, version control: (git), data structures and algorithms, working with databases, data analysis using Python and related libraries (Pandas, NumPy/Scipy, scikit-learn), parallel computing (Map-Reduce, Spark, Hadoop), basic finite-precision arithmetic, an overview of standard machine learning and optimization algorithms, and time-permitting, a guided tour of functional programming.#
&ORIE 5310 | Optimization II&
#A variety of optimization methods stressing extensions of linear programming and its applications but also including topics drawn from integer programming, dynamic programming, and network optimization. Formulation and modeling are stressed as well as numerous applications.#
&ORIE 5370 | Optimization Modeling in Finance&
#Explores optimization in the context of finance, including methodologies beyond linear programming, such as second-order cone programming and semidefinite programming.  Topics include Markowitz portfolio theory and modeling; factor models for portfolio selection and risk control; the Black-Litterman model (and related Bayesian topics); utility functions; coherent risk measures; stochastic programming; and optimal execution of portfolio transactions.  Emphasis is on concepts that are directly implementable.#
&ORIE 5510 | Stochastic Processes for Decision-Making&
#Uses basic concepts and techniques of random processes to construct models for a variety of problems of practical interest. Topics include the Poisson process, Markov chains, renewal theory, models for queuing, and reliability.#
&ORIE 5550 | Applied Time Series Analysis&
#Introduces statistical tools for the analysis of time-dependent data. Data analysis and application will be an integral part of this course. Topics include linear, nonlinear, seasonal, multivariate modeling, and financial time series.#
&ORIE 5582 | Monte Carlo Methods in Financial Engineering&
#An overview of Monte Carlo methods as they apply in financial engineering. Generating sample paths. Variance reduction (including quasi random number), discretization, and sensitivities. Applications to derivative pricing and risk management.#
&ORIE 5610 | Financial Engineering with Stochastic Calculus II&
#Building upon the foundation established in ORIE 5600, this course presents advanced models for pricing and hedging financial derivatives, along with essential computational methods. The curriculum focuses on models for equities, foreign exchange, and fixed-income securities, utilizing local and stochastic volatility frameworks, the Heston model, partial differential equation (PDE) methods, change of numeraire techniques, stopping times, and the Heath-Jarrow-Morton (HJM) model.#
&ORIE 5640 | Statistics for Financial Engineering&
#Regression, ARIMA, GARCH, stochastic volatility, and factor models. Calibration of financial engineering models, estimation of diffusion models, estimation of risk measures, multivariate models and copulas, bayesian statistics. Students are instructed in the use of R software; prior knowledge of R is helpful but not required. This course is intended for M.Eng. students in financial engineering and assumes some familiarity with finance and financial engineering. Students not in the financial engineering program are welcome if they have a suitable background. Students with no background in finance should consider taking ORIE 4630 instead.#
&ORIE 5650 | Quantitative Methods of Financial Risk Management&
#A historical perspective of market risk measurement including the Markowitz, CAPM and APT models and of insurance risk management, a description of the Value-at-Risk approach and an overview of VaR variants and extensions such as delta-VaR, CVaR and more generally distorsion risk measures, and a description of the qualitative approach of risk management by different companies. The course surveys methods for evaluating risk and consider multivariate methods for evaluating portfolios requiring copula tools which have become popular. Topics in credit risk: methods for determining default probabilities and company ratings based on financial ratios, and approaches to measuring credit risk which can be roughly divided into structural models and reduced-form models; first to default products and impact of correlation. Topics in insurance: pensions and life insurance, property and casualty insurance. Topics in finance: correlation of extremes, Herd index and systemic risk. Topics for environmental risks: flood risk, hurricane risk, weather derivatives and cat-bonds. Topics in energy: extremes and nuclear risk, energy supply issues, river network dam management. Regulations aspects (Basel II-III for banks and Solvency II for the insurance industry) and internal risk models for banks and insurance companies. Issues about concrete implementation of extreme value theory for regulation. Introduction to economic capital and economic capital allocation, and to competition issues in insurance and between old and new energies. Case studies and concrete examples of quantitative risk management issues and applications to financial, insurance, energy and environmental sectors. Participation of Chief Risk Officers of some companies to one or two sessions.#
&ORIE 5735 | Graph-Based Data Science for Networked Systems&
#The goal of this course is to introduce data structural and computational models that are indexed by the irregular support of a graph. The graph represents the network that couples the dynamics of many agents, or it can be a more abstract Bayesian graphical model that explains how observations are conditionally dependent. The course will start from introducing basic concepts in graph theory followed by an introduction to random graphs models. This part will be followed by network dynamical models that model the observations from these processes. Bayesian graphical models will be briefly covered as a more general statistical abstraction and computational framework to perform inferences. The course will then introduce the students to the emerging field of graph signal processing, a theory that generalizes digital and image processing to graph signals.#
&ORIE 5741 | Learning with Big Messy Data&
#Modern data sets, whether collected by scientists, engineers, medical researchers, government, financial firms, social networks, or software companies, are often big, messy, and extremely useful. This course addresses scalable robust methods for learning from big messy data. We'll cover techniques for learning with data that is messy --- consisting of real numbers, integers, booleans, categoricals, ordinals, graphs, text, sets, and more, with missing entries and with outliers --- and that is big --- which means we can only use algorithms whose complexity scales linearly in the size of the data. We will cover techniques for cleaning data, supervised and unsupervised learning, finding similar items, model validation, and feature engineering.#
&ORIE 5742 | Info Theory, Probabilistic Modeling, and Deep Learning with Scientific and Financial Apps&
#This course is about building and understanding machine learning models for scientific and financial applications. It will cover foundational aspects of information theory and probabilistic inference as they relate to model construction and deep learning. Topics include hamming codes, repetition codes, entropy, mutual information, Shannon information, channel capacity, likelihood functions, Bayesian inference, graphical models, and deep neural networks. The section on deep neural networks will consider fully connected, convolutional, recurrent, and LSTM networks, generative adversarial training, and variational autoencoders.#
&ORIE 5751 | Applied Causal Inference using Machine Learning&
#Provides an applied treatment of modern causal inference using machine learning to handle high-dimensionality and nonparametric estimation. Formulates key causal questions in the languages of structural equation modeling and potential outcomes. Presents methods for estimating and constructing confidence intervals on causal and structural parameters using machine learning, including de-biased machine learning, and for learning how to predict heterogeneous treatment effects. Introduces tools from machine learning and deep learning developed for prediction purposes and discusses how to adapt them to causal inference. Emphasizes the applied and practical perspectives with real-world-data examples and assignments. Requires basic knowledge of statistics and machine learning and programming experience in R or Python.#
&ORIE 5910 | Manufacturing Option Project&
#Project course coordinated by Center for Manufacturing Enterprise.#
&ORIE 5911 | Manufacturing Option Project&
#Project course coordinated by Center for Manufacturing Enterprise.#
&ORIE 5920 | Enterprise Engineering Colloquium&
#Weekly meeting for master of engineering students. Discussion with industry speakers and faculty members on the uses of engineering in the effective and efficient design, manufacturing, marketing, distribution, sustainment, and retirement of goods and services.#
&ORIE 5925 | M.Eng. Professional Review&
#An interactive course in which students present findings and share lessons from their summer internship experiences.#
&ORIE 5981 | ORIE Master of Engineering Project&
#Principal segment of the Master of Engineering project experience, culminating in a formal final report and oral presentation to project stakeholders.#
&ORIE 6125 | Computational Methods in Operations Research&
#A suite of tools and techniques that enable computation in operations research. Structured and efficient programming, code optimization, code review, version management systems, building a user interface, exploring and manipulating large-scale datasets.#
&ORIE 6170 | Engineering Societal Systems&
#This class will explore topics in the intersection of computer science, economics, and operations - on the application of algorithms, data science/machine learning, and mechanism design to the study of democracy, markets, and societal systems at large.#
&ORIE 6510 | Probability&
#Covers sample spaces, events, sigma fields, probability measures, set induction, independence, random variables, expectation, review of important distributions and transformation techniques, convergence concepts, laws of large numbers and asymptotic normality, and conditioning.  In the last part of the course, we will cover applications to epidemic modeling.#
&ORIE 6780 | Bayesian Statistics and Data Analysis&
#Priors, posteriors, Bayes estimators, decision theory, asymptotic theory, Bayes factors, credible regions, hierarchical models, nonparametric Bayes, computational methods, Bayesian robustness, and applications. This is a theory-oriented course intended for PhD students. For a more applied introduction to Bayesian statistics, students should take STSCI 4780, Bayesian Data Analysis: Principles and Practice, which is offered in the spring.#
&ORIE 7590 | Selected Topics in Applied Probability&
#Topics are chosen from current literature and research areas of the staff.#
&ORIE 7900 | Special Investigations&
#No description available.#
&ORIE 7999 | PhD Independent Research&
#Independent research for ORIE Ph.D. students.#
&ORIE 9000 | ORIE Graduate Colloquium&
#Weekly one and one-half hour meeting devoted to presentations by distinguished visitors, by faculty members, and by advanced graduate students on topics of current research in the field of operations research.#


$PE | Physical Education & Athletics$
&PE 1100 | Beginning Swimming&
#An entry level class for those with little or no swimming experience. Instruction and practice in the basic skills necessary to meet the University Swim Requirement. Areas of emphasis are: developing proper body position on the front and back, proper breathing technique, Front Crawl, Elementary Backstroke, treading and swimming in deep water.#
&PE 1101 | Advanced Beginner Swimming&
#Ideal for all who have taken Beginning Swimming or have some basic knowledge of how to swim, regardless of whether the University Swim Requirement was successfully met. Areas of emphasis are the Front Crawl with rotary breathing, Back Crawl, Elementary Backstroke, diving, treading water, and underwater swimming. The primary objective is to strengthen the student's confidence and competence.#
&PE 1103 | Advanced Swimming&
#Practice and perfection of the techniques of the 9 strokes: Front Crawl, Back Crawl, Butterfly, Breaststroke, Elementary Backstroke, Sidestroke, Overarm Sidestroke, Trudgeon, and Inverted Breaststroke. This class may also cover turns, diving and an introduction to a swimming workout. Students should be able to easily swim a minimum of 300 yds (12 lengths of the pool). Please note: this course is primarily designed as a stroke technique course, not a conditioning course.#
&PE 1104 | Swim Conditioning&
#Introduction to and practice of different types of training methods. Final objectives: 2,500 yards in one class period. This is primarily a conditioning course and not an instructional course on stroke technique. The focus will be on workouts, workout planning and different types of training methods. This course is intended for more advanced swimmers. Students who have completed Beginning or Advanced Beginner Swimming may have a very difficult time in this course.#
&PE 1110 | Lifeguarding&
#This is the current A.R.C. Lifeguarding Course. It is designed for pool guarding. Emphasis is on preventative lifeguarding, surveillance methods and equipment rescues. This course also includes instruction and certification in A.R.C. First Aid, C.P.R. for the Professional Rescuer, and Automated External Defibrillator use. An option will be available for those interested in the Waterfront Lifeguarding certification. Note: this course is not for the casual participant as it will require 36 hours of scheduled class time.#
&PE 1130 | Open Water Scuba&
#Program includes knowledge development and skill training in the pool. All classes are referral only (no open water dives), meaning students will need to pickup their paperwork and complete four additional dives in open water within one year from the last training section to receive a PADI Open Water Diver certification. For more information, please see: www.pe.cornell.edu/.#
&PE 1134 | Bahamas Dive Trip&
#Scuba trips to various destinations, such as the Bahamas. Locations change from year to year.#
&PE 1150 | Ballroom Dancing&
#This is a beginning level class introducing students to Social Ballroom Dance. Participants can expect to have fun, learn some history of American Social Dance, learn about movement - how to move with your partner, how to move to the music, and enough 'moves' in five different dances (Waltz, Foxtrot, Tango, Rumba and Cha Cha) to get a taste of and a general feel for each dance. Please note: The Sunday section is for students enrolling with a partner and there is limited rotation of partners during class. Partners should enroll via Student Center at the same time to ensure that both partners get into the Sunday section. The Wednesday section is for students who either don't have a partner or don't mind rotating partners in the class. Changing partners generally results in improved mastery.#
&PE 1153 | Beginning Ballroom Dance Rhythm&
#Offered during the spring semester, this is a beginning level class that introduces students to four American Rhythm Style ballroom dances – Rumba, Cha Cha, Mambo and Swing. This class will go further in depth than the Beginning Social Ballroom Dance class (PE1150). This class is appropriate for either beginners or students with some experience who wish to further develop their knowledge and skill in the dances covered. Participants will gain some mastery of each dance, develop partnering skills, technique, movement, styling and musicality. It is not necessary to sign up with a partner, however it is recommended to ensure balance between leads and follows. Participants will change partners throughout the class.#
&PE 1155 | Introduction to Belly Dancing&
#Belly Dance, as it is known in the West, is an exciting and beautiful art form originating in the Middle East and North Africa. Belly Dance is a fun way to develop flexibility, body awareness, and overall body strength. Learning correct posture, muscle control, and dance movement in each class, we will end the semester with a short choreography. Comfortable clothing suitable for exercise is worn. Please feel free to bring a hip scarf to class. Beginners and experienced dancers welcome.#
&PE 1160 | Latin Dance&
#This class introduces Salsa, Bachata, Merengue, Cha Cha Cha, Son and Comparsa. Salsa derives from the Cuban rhythm of Son. As a music and dance form, it has acquired regional variations and absorbed influences from different parts of Latin America and other continents. Bachata and Merengue are quintessential dances of the Dominican Republic. Comparsa is a form of carnival line dance. Cha Cha Cha originates in Cuba, finds expression in Rock n' Roll and western pop music, and is traditionally danced "contratiempo." In this course, we learn the basics of all of these dances. Instruction emphasizes the development of foundations in musical timing, rhythm, body movement, lead-follow connection and space use. Class begins with a stretch and body movement warm-up. We then teach dance step sequences across the floor, in rotating lines, as freestyle and in partner format. The skills learned in each dance are interrelated - as you improve in one you develop a sensibility for the others. By the end of this course you will be able to take Latin dance to a higher level and learn other partnered dances. No partner is necessary to register. Couple sign-up is encouraged. Partners rotate. This class is gender-free: each student is free to learn the lead or follow role.#
&PE 1162 | Salsa&
#This class covers beginner through advanced beginner Salsa moves. Students learn step variations and turn patterns as seen in Latin social dance and nightclub settings. Class begins with a warm-up of Salsa step patterns, also known as "shines." We then move into combinations for couples and learn patterns with rotating partners. Latin body movement and rhythm is taught in the warm-up and partner sections. In partner work, emphasis is placed on: lead-follow connection; frame and tension; spatial awareness; nuance and flow. Salsa in Rueda de Casino format will be introduced later in the semester as an additional way to enjoy Salsa. In Rueda, dancers change partners within a circle and perform dynamic combinations to the arrangement of a caller. Rueda is also a teaching tool used to improve timing and release energy. Learning aids include a syllabus, music, smartphone application and video tutorial. No partner is necessary to register. Couple sign-up is encouraged. This class is gender-free: each student is free to choose the lead or follow role.#
&PE 1167 | Introduction to Tango&
#Introduction to the fundamentals of Tango dancing and its origins. Focus is on movement on the dance floor and how to be connected to your partner. Other aspects include learning to differentiate between the genres of Tango music (Tango, Milonga, Candombe, and Vals).#
&PE 1170 | Introduction to Swing Dance&
#In this class you will learn the basics of Lindy Hop (also called Jitterbug and East Coast Swing), a social dance originated by Black Americans in the early twentieth century that is still popular today all around the world. We will work on footwork, timing, partnering, and musicality, with the goal of empowering you to have fun on the social dance floor—at weddings, parties, and wherever there's good rythmic music playing! You'll learn to improvise and have the opportunity to create short choreographs too. No dance experience or partner is necessary. In fact, you will change partners frequently in class. Wear clothes you are comfortable moving in. Shoes must have leather soles OR be white-soled sneakers with the treads worn smooth, or you can dance in socks.#
&PE 1231 | Group Fitness Instructor Training&
#This course provides detailed instruction on how to effectively lead group fitness classes (in a choreographed or interval format such as Muscle Pump and H.I.I.T. & Core) and prepare students for the AFAA Primary Group Exercise Certification Exam.&nbsp;#
&PE 1233 | Bootcamp&
#This course is designed as a modern military style workout program with an emphasis on both aerobic and anaerobic fitness. Each workout session will consist of stretching, warm-up calisthenics, cardio training, full body resistance training, core activation and cool down stretching. This is a high energy course that will teach students the importance of motivation, enthusiasm and teamwork while familiarizing them with total-fitness techniques and concepts. If you are ready to push yourself and train hard, Bootcamp is for you. Students of all fitness levels will benefit greatly from this course.#
&PE 1235 | 8 O'Clock Rock&
#This class combines the best of the Principals of Weight Training and Cardio Crazy to get your day off to a rocking and rolling great start. Students will use resistance and cardio equipment to create the perfect morning wake-up call.#
&PE 1237 | Yasaride&
#This class combines two wonderful activities, indoor cycling and yoga into a mindful stress reducing hour of fitness. The yoga portion will focus on full body stretching as well as areas that need more attention after cycling such as hamstrings, hips, and the spine.  The class will also include work on breath, alignment, and mindfulness in both the cycling and yoga portions of the class. The length of time for each activity will vary from class to class.#
&PE 1238 | Barre&
#Barre is a high energy, low-impact, full body work out. You will target specific muscles using isolated exercises to sculpt your arms, legs and seat, all while keeping the focus on core and alignment. Although inspired by ballet and set to music, this is not a dance class. This course is an open-level format to help you build strength, improve posture and flexibility while creating long, lean muscles.#
&PE 1241 | Mobility and Core Training&
#Mobility and stability are fundamental components of our daily movement. Whether you are highly active, not active at all, or somewhere in between, this course will teach you about these subtle yet critical details of exercise. Through various mobility and flexibility exercises, you will learn how to tune your muscles for optimal length-tension relationships, while at the same time learning core strengthening exercises to help counter faulty postures from long hours of sitting.#
&PE 1245 | Indoor Stationary Cycling&
#Based on the foundation of the Spinning® Program this indoor stationary cycling class combines basic cycling movements with motivational coaching, breathing awareness, and heart rate training. This non-impact, individually paced, cardiovascular fitness class is held in a fun environment with music that will move you! A great alternative to traditional group fitness classes.#
&PE 1246 | Open Gym Class&
#This Open Gym PE course offers an exclusive time and space to students who have previous experience with exercise. The Cornell Fitness Centers offer a wide variety of free weight and cardio equipment, and experience with this equipment is mandatory for this course. An instructor will be on staff to supervise and assist students with their training, but independent exercise should be expected.#
&PE 1260 | Cardio Kickboxing&
#Cardio-Kickboxing is a series of movements that consists of kicks, punches, and blocks done to music. It is similar to a typical aerobics class except the moves consist of martial arts techniques. Cardio-Kickboxing is a total body workout in its most complete form burning hundreds of calories and hour. No experience necessary.#
&PE 1261 | Fitness and Conditioning&
#Fitness and conditioning is designed to familiarize the student with several different forms of exercise. Facilities used include the track, the gymnasium and other places around campus. The components of physical fitness include cardiovascular endurance, muscular strength, general flexibility and agility. The course will offer activities that enhance each component and help the individual to design a personal conditioning program for future fitness and well-being.#
&PE 1262 | Fitness for Women&
#The design of this course includes both lecture and physical activity. Students are presented with a variety of topics and information that involves physical fitness and health. Each student will learn to design a fitness program that is geared toward her own interests and abilities. Topics include: nutrition, time management, relaxation techniques, and stress management. Activities will include aerobic dance, walking, jogging, weight training, flexibility exercises, relaxation and stress management routines, and yoga techniques.#
&PE 1265 | Wellness and Fitness&
#"Here's to a Healthier You" - A wellness experience for the busy student. This course will assess the student's physical fitness status, and overall lifestyle health habits. Strength training basics emphasize how to properly perform exercises for each of the major muscle groups of the body.  Program Planning, Nutrition and Stress Management are also presented.#
&PE 1272 | Walking Tours&
#A series of walking tours around the Cornell Campus and beyond. Class will meet regardless of weather, so please come prepared.#
&PE 1273 | Walking Meditation&
#This course combines walking and meditation, two life-enhancing activities that can help students create balance in their hectic lives. Walking is the optimum exercise for good health and meditation offers the opportunity to calm an active and busy mind. Drawing on the teachings from the Vietnamese Zen Buddist monk, Thich Nhat Hanh, will involve meditating in motion.#
&PE 1290 | Introduction to Gymnastics&
#This class is an introduction to all of the men's and women's gymnastics events. Instruction will focus on beginner level skills with emphasis on tumbling and acrobatics. No experience is necessary and all ability levels are welcome. Students must have a basic level of fitness and upper body strength.#
&PE 1300 | Introduction to Bowling&
#Instruction available during each class session for the Beginning or Intermediate level bowler. Choice of two 45 minute classes per week or one class for 90 minutes. Shoe rental included in course fee which covers approximately 72 games.#
&PE 1311 | Fly Fishing&
#This course introduces the student to the beautiful sport of fly fishing. Topics covered include fly tying, knots and rigging, casting and presentation, and what species of fish you can catch locally. Students will tie fly patterns that are appropriate for fishing opportunities in this region. The course will feature classroom sessions and fishing on Beebe Lake as well. Students will primarily be fishing for cold and warm water species including trout, bass and pan fish. All fly fishing tackle, fly tying materials and tools are included. The goal is for the student to catch a fish on a fly they tied.#
&PE 1312 | Ultimate Bass Fishing&
#This class is for anyone who wants to learn more about North America's most popular fish, the bass. Whether you just want to fish from the bank, a kayak or a professional bass boat, this class is aimed for anyone from a beginner to an avid angler. The course will feature classroom sessions and fishing on Beebe Lake as well. Students will enjoy hands-on procedures such as knot tying, the newest and hottest lure rigging, learning to cast spinning and casting combos, along with other bass catching techniques. Topics such as bass habits, habitats, seasonal patterns, the differences between smallmouth and largemouth bass, and good area bass waters will be covered.#
&PE 1320 | Professional Instructional Golf&
#Equipment furnished. PGA program of instruction geared to all levels of experience and ability. The objective is to give beginners enough skill to play, and to give more advanced players direction in their thinking, practice, and play, through a thorough understanding of fundamentals.#
&PE 1321 | Advanced Golf&
#Students must be experienced golfers (i.e. they MUST have golf playing experience on a course) and have their own set of clubs. Students who do not have the appropriate skills will be removed from the course and will not receive a refund.  The objective is to give advanced players instruction and practice to improve golfing skills.#
&PE 1330 | Beginning Downhill Skiing&
#Lift tickets and lessons are included in the course fee. Rentals are available at an additional cost. Please carefully read the additional information on the PE website for particulars. Greek Peak personnel should be contacted to explain the program and fees.#
&PE 1331 | Intermediate-Advanced Downhill Skiing&
#Lift tickets and lessons are included in the course fee. Rentals are available at an additional cost. Please carefully read the additional information on the PE website for particulars. Greek Peak personnel should be contacted to explain the program and fees.#
&PE 1332 | Beginning Snowboarding&
#Lift tickets and lessons are included in the course fee. Rentals are available at an additional cost. Please carefully read the additional information on the PE website for particulars. Greek Peak personnel should be contacted to explain the program and fees.#
&PE 1333 | Intermediate-Advanced Snowboarding&
#Lift tickets and lessons are included in the course fee. Rentals are available at an additional cost. Please carefully read the additional information on the PE website for particulars. Greek Peak personnel should be contacted to explain the program and fees.#
&PE 1340 | Juggling&
#The course focuses on teaching 3 ball juggling patterns as well as introducing a wide variety of other props which may include: rings, clubs, diabolo, flower sticks, poi, and spinning plates. Advanced students will also be able to learn club passing, 4 and 5 balls and advanced tricks.#
&PE 1347 | Brazilian Jiu Jitsu Fundamentals&
#Brazilian Jiu Jitsu, known as BJJ was developed by Helio Gracie, and continues to develop as one of the most popular forms of grappling in the world today. This class focuses on learning and applying fundamental techniques of Brazilian Jiu Jitsu. Students practice various techniques using a traditional GI/kimono. Students will learn and practice positioning, escapes, submissions, and self-defense. The fundamentals class is directed not only for the beginner but also for students who would like to sharpen basic techniques.#
&PE 1365 | Karate Basics&
#This class is meant for those that want to start studying Karate or have not studied in a while.  Students learn about traditional Okinawan Karate (Shito Ryu) by practicing self-defense combinations that involve blocks, strikes, kicks, joint locks and throws.  Along the way we will work on stances, body positioning/mechanics and conditioning.  There is strong emphasis on partner work as a mechanism to practice what is being taught in a safe and controlled environment.  Free sparring and competition are not part of this class.  The last day of class students are encouraged to participate in that semester's belt test.  Passing this test sets you up to continue studying with the next class, should you decide to continue your studies of Karate.#
&PE 1366 | Karate&
#This class is meant for those that have recently studied Karate at Cornell or somewhere else and wish to continue their study of Karate.  Primary instruction is in the Shito Ryu style.  Every semester a different kata is presented along with the applicable self-defense techniques associated with that kata and there is an opportunity to test for a new rank/belt.  Bo staff is used as part of one kata in the curriculum.#
&PE 1371 | Okinawan Karate-do&
#Explosive strikes, strong stances, and controlled footwork make Okinawan Karate-do an effective form of self-defense for men and women of all ages and body types. The physical practice of Okinawan Karate-do is an excellent pathway to increased fitness and improved holistic health. Practiced as a traditional martial art, Okinawan Karate-do facilitates personal development and greater well-being.#
&PE 1375 | Beginning Tae Kwon Do&
#C.W. (Cho Whang) TaeKwonDo of Ithaca conducts the course. The purpose of the program is to teach TaeKwonDo in its diverse aspects as a form of self-defense, as an art form, and as a competitive sport. Classes will consist of extensive stretching, the teaching of basics to beginners, forms of self-defense, and sparring techniques. TaeKwonDo emphasizes the use of the whole body, enhances flexibility and coordination and increases aerobic capability. Promotional tests are held at the end of each semester. Han Cho may be reached at 257-7810.#
&PE 1376 | Intermediate Tae Kwon Do&
#C.W. (Cho Whang) TaeKwonDo of Ithaca conducts the course. At least one semester of PE TaeKwonDo or equivalent is required.  The purpose of the program is to teach TaeKwonDo in its diverse aspects as a form of self-defense, as an art form, and as a competitive sport. Classes will consist of extensive stretching, the teaching of basics to beginners, forms of self-defense, and sparring techniques. TaeKwonDo emphasizes the use of the whole body, enhances flexibility and coordination and increases aerobic capability. Promotional tests are held at the end of each semester. Han Cho may be reached at 257-7810.#
&PE 1380 | Tai Chi Chuan&
#Fundamentally, Tai Chi is an integrative exercise that joins the various elements of functional fitness into a single, organically connected whole. Through a rich vocabulary of movements that enhance spatial and body awareness, Tai Chi provides a medium for harmonizing balance, coordination, flexibility, and supple strength. This course will consist of warm-ups, stretching, an introduction to the 24 Movement Form, and 2 person interactive exercises. Please loose, comfortable clothing. Students must be in bare or sock feet during class.#
&PE 1385 | Thai Boxing&
#This martial art system, developed from the unique culture of Thailand, is a blend of art, science and sport. The Thai art is a very powerful ring fighting method, yet is also an excellent form of physical conditioning and street self-defense. The fighting techniques taught in Thai boxing include; the Western Boxing method, elbow -knee strikes, and the powerful Thai style of kicking. This combined with the unique training method and discipline makes Thai Boxing one of the most effective systems in the world. Kevin Seaman is the New York State Representative for the Thai Boxing Association USA.#
&PE 1405 | Living Routines&
#Once a week you will participate in a health routine. After a short brisk walk, (inside in poor weather) you will engage in an energizing stretching session, followed by a short meditation. In addition to being introduced to stretching and meditation, the class will offer you the opportunity to get to know your classmates through partnered self-awareness exercises and group sharing.#
&PE 1420 | Introduction to Meditation&
#This course provides the opportunity to explore a variety of ancient and modern methods designed to bring one to the state of meditation. The methods serve to evoke the deep relaxation from which heightened awareness and creativity arise. If these classes do not fit your schedule, try Body-Mind, Living Routines or Moving into the Moment which have meditation in them.#
&PE 1421 | Relaxation and Stress Management&
#This course offers a mind/body approach to gaining realization and managing the stress in our lives. Participants will leave this course with a greater understanding and appreciation of their own unique ways of coping with stressful situations. We will explore a variety of techniques which can be used to ease the pressures of student life. A sample of these activities includes; stretching (Yoga), creative art, conversation, new games and meditation.#
&PE 1422 | Meditation and Relaxation&
#This course is designed to assist you in learning to meditate, or to deepen your existing practice. As you learn to practice meditation and relaxation exercises, you will find that as little as 15 minutes a day can benefit your physical, mental, emotional and spiritual health. With some assistance, we are all capable of learning to relax deeply, sleep better, detach from the mind's chatter, focus with renewed concentration and become aware of the joy and energy that is deep within us. If these classes do not fit your schedule, try Body-Mind or Living Routines which both have meditation in them.#
&PE 1424 | Yoga Trapeze&
#Yoga Trapeze combines the traditional yoga practice with TRX strength training as well as the fun and physical benefits of inversion therapy. Hanging upside down can relieve tension and compression in the neck and spine, while other hanging postures develop grip and pull strength in the hands and shoulders. Other full-body exercises will not only build strength, but will be a great way to advance their yoga practice of backbends, arm balances, and inversions. This course combines strength-building, flexibility, stress-reduction, and fun all in one!#
&PE 1427 | Ashtanga Yoga Foundations&
#This beginner's class will introduce Ashtanga Yoga to the new student. With asanas (poses) from the Primary Series we will focus on using the breath, core engagement, and gaze point to begin your own home-based practice. We will also introduce breath work and meditation. Leave the class feeling energized, refreshed, and strong.#
&PE 1429 | Vinyasa Yoga&
#This course teaches the practice of Vinyasa Yoga. It explores postures flowing from one to the next (breath to movement) and also includes study of philosophy, meditation, breath-work, and alignment.#
&PE 1430 | Introduction to Yoga&
#Learn the alignment foundations of yoga while building strength, flexibility, and vitality! This class is for those who are new to yoga or those looking to fine tune their practice. Students will learn the "ins and outs" of a variety of standing poses, back bends, and maybe even a few inversions or arm balances! Modifications will be given to accommodate all levels. Each class will also include breath instruction and poses for stress reduction.#
&PE 1431 | Intermediate Yoga&
#The course covers more of the fundamentals of Hatha Yoga, including basic postures, breathing techniques, and deep relaxation and chanting techniques.#
&PE 1439 | HIIT Yoga&
#HIIT yoga is a great way to get your heart rate up, burn calories, and have a mind-body connection. This class will have equal amounts of high intensity interval training and yoga to keep you moving and stretching throughout each session. Expect to warm up with Sun Salutations, then head to work with resistance training and functional movement drills. Cool down with yoga poses to keep your body and mind steady and calm.#
&PE 1440 | Introduction to Badminton&
#Instruction and practice in the basic skills and rules for both singles and doubles play.#
&PE 1441 | Intermediate Badminton&
#Should have past experience in badminton. Strategies are taught for both singles and doubles play.#
&PE 1445 | Outdoor Beginning Tennis&
#Instruction and practice in the basic skills of the game. Grip, serve, forehand, backhand, and lob are areas covered along with scoring systems. All equipment is furnished.#
&PE 1446 | Outdoor Intermediate Tennis&
#Review and further instruction in strokes: forehand, backhand, serve, volley, and lob. Topspin and underspin are covered along with doubles strategy. All equipment is furnished.#
&PE 1447 | Outdoor Advanced Tennis&
#For players with high school team or tournament experience. Skills emphasized are spins, serve and return of serve, volley, overhead smash, court positioning, and playing strategies.#
&PE 1448 | Pickleball&
#Pickleball is fun, social and friendly sport that combines elements of tennis, badminton and ping-pong. It can be played both indoors and outdoors on a badminton-sized court and a slightly modified tennis net. The rules are simple and the game is easy for beginners to learn, but can develop into a fast-paced, competitive game. Class includes equipment, instruction and practice in the basic skills and rules for both singles and doubles play.#
&PE 1465 | Introduction to Squash&
#A beginner's course where rules of the game, basic strokes and strategies are taught. This class will also provide students with an invigorating cardio workout which may necessitate a shower following class. Please note: a pair of non-marking court shoes will be needed. All other equipment is provided, including safety glasses that are required to be worn at all times.#
&PE 1466 | Intermediate Squash&
#More advanced techniques than beginning squash. This class will also provide students with an invigorating cardio workout which may necessitate a shower following class. Please note: a pair of non-marking court shoes will be needed. All other equipment is provided, including safety glasses that are required to be worn at all times.#
&PE 1482 | Basic Keelboat Sailing&
#This course teaches the basic skills necessary to sail 18 - 26 foot keelboats. Skills learned include: sailing terminology, knots, safety and etiquette, boat handling, sail trimming and heavy wind considerations. There are a total of eighteen hours of instruction on shore or Cayuga Lake depending on weather. Course fee includes all equipment. Come dressed for the weather, as we will sail rain or shine. Open to sailors of all skill levels.#
&PE 1505 | Introduction to Trap and Skeet&
#Class meets off campus at the Tompkins County Fish and Game Club (transportation to and from not provided). Guns and shells furnished. Cost includes birds, shells, range use and instruction. Major emphasis is placed on safety resulting from a thorough understanding of the operation of the firearm and personal responsibility of each individual on the range.#
&PE 1510 | Riflery&
#Instruction and practice in the use of a small bore target rifle. Major emphasis is placed on safety resulting from a thorough understanding of the operation of the firearm and the personal responsibility of each individual on the range. Class meets off campus at the Tompkins County Fish and Game Club (transportation to and from not provided).#
&PE 1515 | Introduction to Handgun Safety&
#Introduction to and instruction in the use of the handgun for target shooting. Major emphasis is placed on safety resulting from a thorough understanding of the operation of the firearm and the personal responsibility of each individual on the range. Class meets off campus at the Tompkins County Fish and Game Club (transportation to and from not provided).#
&PE 1520 | Introduction to Archery&
#Archery has a long tradition across many cultures and is a competitive sport all over the world. This class offers exposure to archery theory and shooting technique, emphasizing safe range practices, proper equipment setup, and practice shooting.#
&PE 1527 | Fencing&
#This course is a modern type of fencing that belongs to the family of combat sports using bladed weapons and refers to the fencing seen in most current competitions, including the Olympic Games and the World Cup. Originating in the 19th century, as a direct continuation of the 18th century French school of fencing which had in turn been influenced by the Italian school of the Renaissance. Includes warm-up exercises and all basic offensive and defensive moves.#
&PE 1540 | Introduction to Skating&
#For the beginning skater interested in figure skating or hockey skating. Course will cover basic skills of forward and backward skating, turns and stops, while also covering skate safety, proper fitting, and body mechanics of skating. An assessment will be done the first day of class and students grouped accordingly.
Skate rental available for $2.00 per session.#
&PE 1545 | Beginning Figure Skating&
#For the beginning skater or skater with no previous formal instruction. Students will learn basic forward and backward skating skills, including stopping and turning, while also covering skate safety, proper fitting, and body mechanics of skating. An assessment will be done the first day of class and students grouped accordingly. Skate rental available for $2.00 per session.#
&PE 1546 | Intermediate Figure Skating&
#The course will review the skills taught in the PE1540 and PE1545, as a foundation, and move into learning more advanced turns, stops, and basic jumps and spins. Course will also cover skate safety, proper fitting, and body mechanics of skating. An assessment will be done the first day of class and students grouped accordingly. Skate rental available for $2.00 per session.#
&PE 1547 | Advanced Figure Skating&
#This course is for the advanced figure skater. Permission of instructor is required if student has not previously taken PE1546 or PE1547. Skaters will be learning advanced skills including jumps, spins, turns, edge moves, step sequences, and ice dance patterns. Students will be working independently on ice at times, as well as, group instruction, TBD by instructor based on level of participants enrolled.#
&PE 1550 | Introduction to Ice Hockey&
#Organized on a team practice basis. Skills to be taught include developing basic skating skills (stops, starts, forwards, backwards), basic puck skills (stick handling, shooting, passing), and team skills (breakouts, puck movement). Skates and hockey sticks must be supplied by the participants (skate rental available $2.00 per session). All other necessary equipment will be supplied by the Physical Education Department.#
&PE 1551 | Intermediate Ice Hockey&
#This course is designed for the intermediate hockey player. Advanced techniques taught include developing intermediate skating skills (edge work drills, crossovers, transitions), puck skills (passing-saucers, backhand, shooting-wrist, snap, backhand), and team skills (breakouts, puck movement, 5v5, 4v5). Each session emphasizes game situations and scrimmaging.#
&PE 1560 | Basketball&
#Fundamentals of passing, dribbling and shooting are stressed. Offensive and defensive patterns are taught. Intra-class team competition is a part of the course. It is recommended that students wear high-top basketball shoes and not running shoes for the class due to the risk of ankle injuries.#
&PE 1561 | Advanced Basketball&
#Advanced fundamentals of passing, dribbling, shooting, and offensive/defensive patterns are taught. Intra-class team competition is a part of the course. It is recommended that students wear high-top basketball shoes and not running shoes for the class due to the risk of ankle injuries.#
&PE 1565 | Soccer&
#This class will cover the fundamental skills of soccer: passing, trapping, heading, dribbling and shooting. Team tactics are covered specific to the outdoor game.#
&PE 1570 | Beginning-Intermediate Volleyball&
#Fundamentals of ball handling, serves, defensive blocks, and position play are stressed. Classes scrimmage.#
&PE 1571 | Advanced Volleyball&
#For the experienced player. Improvement of skills through practice games and drills. Trials to check the appropriate level of ability will be held during the first class period.#
&PE 1580 | Principles of Weight Training&
#A comprehensive understanding of weight training and its place in the world of fitness. Topics to be covered include: selectorized equipment, free weight exercises, isometrics, circuit training, toning, stretching, strength development, and program design based on goal setting.#
&PE 1581 | Weight Training for Women&
#This class will focus on the basics of weight lifting. Topics covered will include: toning vs. building, theory of program design, training with dumbbells, selectorized equipment, free weight exercises for all muscle groups, flexibility, and proper nutrition for weight training.#
&PE 1582 | Advanced Weight Training&
#The primary focus of this course will be learning and practicing the Olympic lifts (the snatch, clean and jerk and related exercises). We will study these lifts in detail while working on building the strength and flexibility necessary for their proper performance. Additional topics will be determined based on the interests of the class. Possible topics might include: advanced programming for strength training, kettlebell training, training for sport performance, advanced muscle-building strategies and splits.#
&PE 1600 | Introduction to Aerials&
#This aerial arts course will focus on aerial fabric, as well as conditioning and flexibility training to enhance your practice and creative exercises to develop your artistry. The aerial arts get you upside down, physically engaged, and expressing yourself through a whole new medium. All levels and abilities are welcome. All students will be required to wear a mask at all times while inside for class, and will need to sign Circus Cultures Safety agreement.#
&PE 1601 | Backcountry Cooking&
#Tired of only eating Ramen on trips? Do you wonder about the difference between powdered cheese and real cheese? Ever wanted to learn how to make true gourmet food in the field? This course will introduce students to gourmet skills that can be used in the backcountry.#
&PE 1603 | Snowshoeing and Winter Travel&
#Ready to enjoy being outside this winter?! Come explore the glens, valleys, and wooded hills blanketed by snow. Learn about winter natural history, navigation, cold weather safety, and snowshoe history and equipment, while enjoying a great workout and becoming at home in the winter weather.#
&PE 1605 | Day Hiking&
#From spectacular gorges and waterfalls, to wooded ridges and glacially carved lakes, the Finger Lakes Region is justly famous for its scenery. Get off campus to discover the natural wonder surrounding us. These outings provide plenty of time to meet new friends, learn about geology, stream ecology, and the outdoor skills necessary to set out on discoveries of your own. No experience necessary.#
&PE 1606 | Outdoor Birding and Nature Observation&
#Come join us as we watch the bird migration come to life throughout the Spring as well as the other nature and wildlife patterns to be found in this season. Learn to identify and understand the behaviors of the birds and natural world in our area.#
&PE 1608 | Trail Running&
#Tired of that same old route on campus? Come trail running! We'll get you out on the spectacular local trails, provide training tips, teach you how to navigate in the woods, and run you over hill and dale, through forests, fields, and mud pits! It will be a confidence-building, life-changing, attitude-adjusting experience. We'll start easy and gradually build over the duration of the course, but you should be able to run comfortably for 50 minutes. Group pace, no one will be left behind.#
&PE 1609 | Geocaching&
#It the world's biggest treasure hunt! You might not know it but people have been hiding boxes of treasure all over the world for you to find, even in your neighborhood. Come learn to how to find their secret locations, what do do with them, and even make one of your own. This course will introduce students to a bit of map reading and use of a GPS in a natural setting. No experience is necessary. Students should come to class prepared to be outside for the entire class length. No experience necessary.#
&PE 1610 | Backpacking in the Finger Lakes&
#Escape from campus to explore the glens, gorges, wooded hills, waterfalls, vistas and trails of the Finger Lakes region. Learn basic outdoor living skills, including hiking, navigation, equipment selection and use, camping, backcountry cooking, and safety.#
&PE 1613 | Wilderness Survival Skills&
#Learn what you can do to feel comfortable spending a night alone in the backcountry with limited resources. This course covers general backcountry safety, shelters, signaling, water and food procurement, navigation, and fire starting, as well as nature observation skills.#
&PE 1615 | Introduction to Circus Arts&
#The circus arts are an exciting hybrid of art and sport. In this course you'll dive deep into the basics of a multitude of circus disciplines, including juggling, stretching and conditioning, and aerial fabric and hammock. The circus arts have been proven to increase brain matter, develop executive function, improve physical fitness, build strength, and create community. No experience is necessary to participate, and all skills can be modified for different levels of fitness. Please wear clothing that allows you to go upside down comfortably. This class will take place at Circus Culture. All students will be required to wear a mask at all times while inside for class, and will need to sign Circus Cultures Safety agreement.#
&PE 1620 | Wilderness Advanced First Aid&
#This is a 4-day, 40 hour course accredited through the Wilderness Medical Associates. Wilderness Advanced First Aid is comprehensive medical training designed for remote professionals or wilderness leaders who venture into remote and challenging environments. Wilderness Medicine differs significantly from standard first aid courses and other training that are oriented toward urban environments. This course teaches how to manage medical emergencies when hospitals and rescue services may not be available for an extensive time period. We prepare students for emergency situations that involve prolonged patient care, severe environments, and improvised equipment. To recertify your current WAFA certification, you may retake the WAFA course or upgrade to a Wilderness First Responder (WFR) by taking a Bridge (WAFA to WFR) course.#
&PE 1621 | Bridge Wilderness Advanced First Aid to Wilderness First Responder&
#This is a 4-day, 40 hour course accredited through the Wilderness Medical Associates. The WAFA to WFR Bridge course upgrades the Wilderness Advanced First Aid to a Wilderness First Responder (WFR) in 4 days. This course must be taken within 3 years of receiving the WMA International WAFA certification or an equivalent from another provider. The WFR is the definitive medical training course for all outdoor professionals and enthusiasts. This course may be used as a recertification for those holding a current WFR certification or equivalent from another provider whose original WFR training was at least 64 hours in length. All eligible students who successfully complete the WAFA to WFR Bridge course will receive WMA International's Wilderness First Responder certification including anaphylaxis, and BLS/Healthcare Provider-Level CPR or equivalent. All WMA International certifications remain valid for three years.#
&PE 1625 | Wilderness First Aid&
#This course focuses on essentials first with an emphasis on backcountry and wilderness issues. Includes a certificate of completion in Wilderness First Aid, as well as American Red Cross Certification in Standard First Aid and CPR. Patient assessment, body systems, equipment improvisation, trauma care, environmental medicine, toxins, backcountry medicine, and wilderness rescue are all covered. Designed for those who travel in small parties in the backcountry and who wish to be self-sufficient and well prepared, but equally useful for handling everyday medical emergencies.#
&PE 1626 | Wilderness First Responder&
#This 8-day, 80-hour course from Wilderness Medical Associates provides the prerequisite training and certification necessary for employment as a professional outdoor instructor at nationally recognized programs such as NOLS and Outward Bound. The curriculum goes beyond the basics needed for first aid certification to emphasize the skills and knowledge needed in backcountry rescue situations when extended care may be needed.#
&PE 1627 | Wilderness First Responder Recertification&
#This is a 3-day, 30 hour course accredited through the Wilderness Medical Associates. The WFR Recertification course is designed to recertify and refresh current Wilderness First Responders. WMA International invites eligible WFR graduates from other wilderness medical schools to recertify with us. Students will review essential skills and wilderness protocols and will discuss relevant updates in wilderness medicine. The course focuses heavily on hands-on learning through patient assessment drills and guided discussion. To earn certification, students must meet the criteria set forth in our Functional Position Description as well as the minimum performance and testing standards by the last day of course. Upon successful completion, students will receive a Wilderness First Responder certification as well as a CPR certification equivalent to the American Heart Association's BLS CPR standard. These certifications remain valid for three years.#
&PE 1628 | Unicycling&
#Learn how to ride a unicycle! Often considered a circus or clown activity, unicycling is a great way to travel and an excellent test of your balance and athleticism. This course will take place at Circus Culture Ithaca's own Circus school. Students should meet at COE (B01) Bartels Hall and will be driven back and forth to Circus Culture.#
&PE 1630 | Caving&
#The most exciting and unknown terrestrial frontier lies deep inside cave systems! Expand your horizons to include the netherworld. Learn cave geology, map reading skills, rope systems, cave safety, environmental concerns, and hone teamwork and communication skills in this introductory class. Expect to be challenged and inspired as you explore caves in Eastern NY. You can expect to crawl and get dirty in these wild, beautiful caves. One weekend outing include car camping.#
&PE 1640 | Basic Rock Climbing&
#We will introduce you to rock climbing movement and techniques, belaying, equipment, knots, rappelling, and safety. Courses ensure a high degree of individual attention and a supportive space to explore the vertical world! Graduates of this course will have the knowledge and skills to push themselves to new challenges while climbing safely and responsibly.#
&PE 1641 | Basic Rock Climbing: Closing the Adventure Gap&
#Adventure Gap: addressing racial disparities that cause minority populations to be much less likely to seek recreation, adventure, and solace in our wilderness spaces. Come climb with COE and take part in the Cornell climbing community! In this special section of Basic Rock Climbing we will introduce you to rock climbing movement and techniques, belaying, equipment, knots, rappelling, and safety at the Lindseth Climbing Center. In addition, we will explore identity, community, and belonging in the outdoors. Courses ensure a high degree of individual and supportive attention. Graduates of this course will build a solid foundation of skills to support future adventures in the vertical world.#
&PE 1642 | Women's Basic Rock Climbing&
#Join us to explore the adventure and excitement of rock climbing in a close and supportive community. We will focus on techniques to encourage efficiency, build confidence, enhance fluidity, and develop awareness. In addition to teaching skills and techniques, and providing a supportive atmosphere, we will also examine the history, challenges, development and accomplishments of women as climbers. This class is open to anyone.#
&PE 1643 | Introduction to Routesetting&
#Intro to Routesetting is meant for the climber who has significant climbing experience and is interested in the process of creating climbing movement on the wall. Through this course you will learn how to use industry standard tools and practices to create fun, safe, and aesthetic bouldering problems. Attention will be given to safety precautions, both for the setter and for the climber, hold selection and attachment, giving and receiving feedback during forerunning, and editing your work to achieve your goals. Time permitting, an introduction to Working at Height may also be covered.#
&PE 1645 | Southwest Climbing Expedition&
#Take your climbing to new heights on the sandstone of the southwest over spring break. Red Rock, NV has it all: sunny weather, long traditional routes, awesome sport climbing, and spectacular scenery. We'll spend eight days camping and climbing in this land of canyons and giants. With one instructor for every two students we have the flexibility to do anything; from starting to trad lead and building anchors to long multi-pitch routes.#
&PE 1646 | Intermediate Rock Climbing&
#Refine your climbing skills and get individual coaching to build your techniques on various terrain, learn how to stand on and grip more advanced holds, and expand your climbing repertoire as you piece moves together to work through tricky sequences. This course is designed for those with exposure to rock climbing basics and belay experience.This class does NOT cover the skills necessary for lead climbing.  You may consider the Sport Lead Class or a Learn to Lead Lesson.#
&PE 1647 | Sport Lead Climbing&
#Sport Lead Climbing focuses on learning the skills needed to safely sport lead climb at the Lindseth Climbing Center and refine your climbing technique towards this style of climbing. Our staff will teach you about sequencing, high angle footwork, endurance and mental conditioning. If you are looking for a faster paced course, you may consider taking Learn to Lead Lesson. For more a more technique-focused course, please refer to Technique & Training.#
&PE 1650 | Rock Climbing: Technique and Training&
#Technique & Training is meant for the climber who has climbing experience and is striving to reach the next level but can't quite get there on their own. This course is designed to improve your climbing technique through climbing specific training and cross-training conditioning. You will learn how to build and implement a climbing training routine, safely and effectively use a campus board and hang board, and participate in balanced muscle development to help prevent injury and keep climbing for a lifetime! Though this class meets once each week, it is expected that students will climb at least one other time during the week. This course does not cover the skills necessary for lead climbing, please refer to: Sport Lead Climbing.#
&PE 1651 | Introduction to Outdoor Rock Climbing&
#Learn basic rock climbing skills on real rock! We'll spend a glorious weekend climbing, tent camping, and relaxing at Minnewaska State Park in the foothills of the Catskill Mountains. We will cover climbing equipment and technique, knots, belaying, rappelling, and natural history.#
&PE 1654 | Ice Climbing&
#Join us as we tiptoe up frozen waterfalls in the beautiful setting of the Adirondack Mountains. Come learn the fundamentals of this incredibly unique form of climbing while enjoying a long weekend in the beauty of a Northeastern winter. This course will take place in very cold temperatures during the day and includes indoor lodging at night. Emphasis is on front pointing and belayed technical climbing - techniques best suited to the steep water ice typically found in the Northeast. Covers equipment, German technique (front pointing), tool selection and placement, and winter safety and comfort.#
&PE 1655 | Introduction to Traditional Lead Climbing&
#This class will teach you the skills needed to start trad climbing on your own. Learn to place and evaluate trad gear, build trad anchors, belay from above, and rappel. We will introduce skills at the Lindseth Climbing Center and travel for a weekend climbing and camping in the 'Gunks to get experience on real rock.#
&PE 1657 | Tree Climbing&
#Whether you are a rain forest canopy researcher, an arborist, or just a kid at heart, everyone loves to climb trees. Recall the excitement and sense of adventure when you first crawled into the branches to look inside a bird's nest. Then you swung from limb to limb without a thought of ropes and harnesses. But what about that big tree down the street you always wanted to climb, but couldn't reach the first branch? This course will teach you how to use ropes and technical climbing gear to reach the top of any tree, to move around, and even to climb from tree to tree without returning to the ground.#
&PE 1659 | Redwoods Tree Climbing&
#Join Cornell Tree Climbing Institute staff for the experience of a lifetime - climbing some of the largest trees on the planet! Each spring we will travel to the western slope of the High Sierra mountains of California. We'll spend a week assisting the UC Berkeley Department of Forest Ecology with Giant Sequoia restoration and ecology research. Students will learn the basics of roped tree climbing, including ascending, moving around in the canopy, and rappelling. Students will also have the opportunity, weather permitting, to sleep overnight in the top of the trees.  We will stay in a rustic mountain house with limited facilities. All gear, instruction, food and lodging, and on-ground transportation is included in the course fee.#
&PE 1661 | Special Programs&
#No description available.#
&PE 1663 | Ropes Course Programming&
#Students learn and apply the technical, safety, leadership and facilitation skills essential to safe and effective ropes course programming. Technical skills such as knot tying, challenge course belaying, and more will be taught during this course. Students will learn low ropes team integration activities as well as high ropes facilitation skills. This course can contribute towards the completion of the CU Leadership Minor. The course will be taught at the Hoffman Challenge Course, with transportation provided.#
&PE 1664 | Mountain Biking&
#Mountain Biking is for those who want to learn the skills to ride a bike on single track trails. Skills on the bike include body position, braking, shifting, descending, climbing and navigating natural terrain such as rocks, roots and logs. You will also learn to complete a bike safety check, change a flat tire and navigate on the trails. Classes will take place at different trail systems.#
&PE 1665 | Learn to Bike&
#Always wanted to learn to ride a bike? last time you rode a bike was when you were a kid? Dream of the freedom that come from peddling yourself around town? Then this is the class for you! Come learn to ride a bike with us with knowledgeable instructors and a safe environment.#
&PE 1666 | Bike Touring&
#Bike Touring is for those who want to learn how to travel self-supported by bike. This course will cover bike touring equipment use, camping skills, route planning and bike maintenance. Skills on the bike will include road riding safety and riding with a loaded bike. Classes will include rides of 5-15 miles and the course will culminate in a two-day bike tour with overnight camping. The weekend tour may include up to 30 miles per day.#
&PE 1671 | Recreational Canoeing&
#This course is designed to teach you the fundamentals of canoeing in a relaxed environment. Appreciate being outside for class as you explore Beebe Lake and other Finger Lakes area waterways. Meet new friends, learn new skills, and experience nature all while you keep active.#
&PE 1674 | Introduction to Sea Kayaking&
#Learn the basics to get you started with sea kayaking out on the lake. This course covers information about equipment, loading, launching & landing your kayak, exiting and re-entering your kayak in open water, and basic paddling stroke technique. Practice skills in the pool, spend a day paddling out on the lake and participate in a weekend camping trip where you paddle out to a primitive campsite carrying all of you gear in your kayak.#
&PE 1675 | Stand Up Paddleboarding&
#Try paddling standing up! We are excited to show you how much fun you can have on stand up paddleboards. Experience Cayuga Lake from a new vantage point. Stay active and engage your whole body. Learn something fun in a small group setting. Our instructors will teach you all the basics including: stance, paddling technique, turning, and more.#
&PE 1680 | Pool Paddling&
#Learn the fundamentals of kayaking in the controlled environment of the pool. This course will give you a solid progression of skills that will be easily transferable to an open water or river experience. Learn and practice a wide range of skills in whitewater kayaks including fundamental paddling strokes, bracing, rolling and boat handling skills like edging and carving. Paddling games and focused exercises will provide a fun and interactive group learning experience.#
&PE 1690 | Cross Country Skiing&
#Thoroughly enjoy your winter in upstate NY with cross-country skiing. Learn the basics to effectively glide across snow-covered landscapes. Start out with getting comfortable on skis on flat land and progress to learning how to navigate hills and trails on cross-country skis. Explore Ithaca's local forests and ski trails. This is a beginner friendly class and no previous skiing experience is required. Because of the physical nature of this activity, participants should be able to comfortably walk several miles on variable terrain. Stay active this winter, meet new people, and experience the beauty of winter. Transportation, equipment, and instruction are all included. Students will need to provide their own winter attire appropriate for cross-country skiing.#
&PE 1702 | Outdoor Yoga&
#This course, an introduction to Yoga, takes place at various places on and off campus. Students will gain a greater awareness of their movements and breathing, improved flexibility, fitness, strength, and wellness in a relaxing outdoor setting. As always, come prepared for the weather.#
&PE 1851 | Leadership Laboratory I&
#MILS I cadets meet for eight hours each month to learn a variety of military skills including rappelling, first aid, drill and ceremonies, weapons familiarization, physical fitness training, and small group leadership.#
&PE 1852 | Leadership Laboratory II&
#Cadets meet for eight hours each month as members of the cadet organization to participate in practical leadership exercises. Types of practical activities include rifle marksmanship, orienteering, drill and ceremonies, signal communications, physical fitness training, first aid, tactics, field exercises, and small group leadership.#
&PE 1853 | Leadership Laboratory III&
#Cadets meet for eight hours each month to prepare for a five-week summer camp that follows their junior year. Emphasis is placed on the development of individual practical and leadership skills. Cadets rotate through leadership positions to practice applying decision-making skills in a myriad of situations.#
&PE 1854 | Leadership Laboratory IV&
#Senior cadets plan and operate the leadership laboratory programs for MILS I-III cadets. The development of planning and supervisory skills is emphasized. Cadets have an opportunity to practice leadership skills developed during previous ROTC training and summer camp experiences. Includes two to three hours a week devoted to physical fitness.#
&PE 1861 | Initial Military Experiences II&
#Continuation of AIRS 1141.#
&PE 1863 | Intermediate Military Experiences II&
#Continuation of AIRS 2241.#
&PE 1865 | Junior Officer Leadership Experiences II&
#Continuation of AIRS 3341.#
&PE 1866 | Advanced Leadership Experiences&
#Cadets assume command leadership responsibilities to operate a military organization. Cadets apply effective leadership and managerial techniques with individuals and groups and participate in self-analysis of leadership and managerial abilities.#
&PE 1867 | Precommissioning Laboratory&
#Factors that facilitate transition from civilian to military life are reviewed. The need for military security, base services and activities, personal finances, travel regulations, and social obligations are introduced.#
&PE 1871 | Naval Professional Laboratory&
#All students in the program participate in a two-hour professional development session each week. The session is held from 2:30 until 4:30 on Wednesday afternoons and consists of drill, athletics, and professional information events. Students gain experience in actual leadership situations and learn the fundamentals of seamanship, military formations, movements, commands, discipline, courtesies, and honors. During information briefings, special emphasis is given to applied leadership as it relates to the administrative and managerial aspects of a Navy or Marine Corps officer's duties.#
&PE 1873 | Naval Professional Laboratory&
#All students in the program participate in a two-hour professional development session each week.  The session is held from 2:30 until 4:30 on Wednesday afternoons and consists of drill, athletics, and professional information events.  Students gain experience in actual leadership situations and learn the fundamentals of seamanship, military formations, movements, commands, discipline, courtesies, and honors.  During information briefings, special emphasis is given to applied leadership as it relates to the administrative and managerial aspects of a Navy or Marine Corps officer's duties.#
&PE 1875 | Naval Professional Laboratory&
#All students in the program participate in a two-hour professional development session each week. The session is held from 2:30 until 4:30 on Wednesday afternoons and consists of drill, athletics, and professional information events. Students gain experience in actual leadership situations and learn the fundamentals of seamanship, military formations, movements, commands, discipline, courtesies, and honors. During information briefings, special emphasis is given to applied leadership as it relates to the administrative and managerial aspects of a Navy or Marine Corps officer's duties.#
&PE 1877 | Naval Professional Laboratory&
#All students in the program participate in a two-hour professional development session each week. The session is held from 2:30 until 4:30 on Wednesday afternoons and consists of drill, athletics, and professional information events. Students gain experience in actual leadership situations and learn the fundamentals of seamanship, military formations, movements, commands, discipline, courtesies, and honors. During information briefings, special emphasis is given to applied leadership as it relates to the administrative and managerial aspects of a Navy or Marine Corps officer's duties.#
&PE 1940 | Varsity Sport&
#No description available.#


$PERSN | Persian$
&PERSN 1321 | Elementary Persian-Farsi II&
#Intended for beginners and heritage speakers alike, this course is a quick and easy way to a popular worldly language in a modern day context (Farsi)!  Students develop all four skills - speaking, listening, reading, and writing. Additional materials from authentic culture-focused readings and Persian poetry are an integral part of the curriculum. By the end of this course students will be able to actively participate in conversations centered around family and friends, hometown, country, studies and work, daily activities, modern Iran as well as write extensively on familiar topics. Students will acquire cultural competence and be able to function in authentic Persian cultural context using the taarof.#
&PERSN 2322 | Intermediate Persian-Farsi II&
#The course is designed with strong integration of modern colloquial Persian (Farsi). Only colloquial Persian is used for all speaking and listening activities, while reading and writing tasks are performed in formal Persian. Authentic material drawn from Persian language TV, radio and movies is introduced regularly in accordance with the topic and vocabulary of given week.  By the end of the semester students will be able to speak, read and comprehend material on a range of social, cultural, political and everyday topics. You'll learn how to write emails and notes as educated Persian speakers, read Persian newspapers and comprehend audio material intended for native speakers. We'll also delve into Persian folk tales, modern Persian rap and pop and Persian humor.#
&PERSN 5510 | Graduate Studies in Persian&
#Topics vary by semester in relation to student needs.#


$PHIL | Philosophy$
&PHIL 1100 | Introduction to Philosophy&
#A general introduction to some of the main topics, texts, and methods of philosophy. Topics may include the existence of God, the nature of mind and its relation to the body, causation, free will, knowledge and skepticism, and justice and moral obligation. Readings may be drawn from the history of philosophy and contemporary philosophical literature.#
&PHIL 1110 | FWS: Philosophy in Practice&
#This First-Year Writing Seminar is about using philosophy and everyday life and provides the opportunity to write extensively about these issues.  Topics vary by section.#
&PHIL 1111 | FWS: Philosophical Problems&
#This First-Year Writing Seminar discusses problems in philosophy and gives the opportunity to write about them.  Topics vary by section.#
&PHIL 1112 | FWS: Philosophical Conversations&
#This First-Year Writing Seminar offers the opportunity to discuss and write about philosophy.  Topics vary by section.#
&PHIL 1440 | Ethics of Eating&
#We all face difficult moral decisions on occasion. This course introduces students to the idea that we face such a decision several times a day in deciding what to eat. How should facts about animal life and death inform this decision? Is the suffering involved in meat, egg, and dairy production really bad enough to make the practices immoral? How do our dietary choices affect local and non-local economies, the environment, and other people generally? Finally, given the deep connections between eating practices and various ethnic, religious and class identities, how can we implement a reasonable food policy for an expanding world population while also respecting these important differences? The goal of this course is not to teach some preferred set of answers to these questions. The goal is rather to give participants the basic tools required to reflect clearly and effectively on the questions themselves. These tools include a working knowledge of the major moral theories developed by philosophers, and an understanding of basic empirical issues related to food production, distribution, consumption, and disposal. In addition to readings, lectures, and required sections, the course will involve trips to some local food-production facilities, as well as supplemental lectures by experts from Cornell, Ithaca, and beyond.#
&PHIL 1960 | Law, Society, and Morality&
#An introduction to leading topics in legal theory and political philosophy such as: what the laws should be, how they shape and are shaped by society, how they are and should be interpreted, the proper role of ethical and religious outlooks in lawmaking, the obligation to obey the law, and the relationship between private life and public legislation.#
&PHIL 2220 | Modern Philosophy&
#A survey of Western philosophy in the 17th and 18th centuries: Descartes, Locke, Spinoza, Leibniz, Berkeley, Hume, and Kant. We focus largely on epistemology (ideas, skepticism, belief, knowledge, science) and metaphysics (bodies, minds, God, causation, natural laws, afterlife, and personal identity). Some of the ethical implications of these systems will also be mentioned in passing.#
&PHIL 2310 | Introduction to Deductive Logic&
#Covers sentential languages, the truth-functional connectives, and their logic; first-order languages, the quantifiers "every" and "some," and their logic.#
&PHIL 2415 | Introduction to Moral Psychology&
#This course is an introduction to the moral mind from philosophical and psychological perspectives. Many traditional philosophical problems about morality are being illuminated by current work in cognitive science. In this course, we will look at several of these problems. In each case, we will begin with a presentation of the philosophical problems, and we will proceed to examine recent empirical work on the topic. A wide range of topics will be covered, including moral judgment, agency, the self, and punishment.#
&PHIL 2420 | Social and Political Philosophy&
#This course will examine key issues in social and political philosophy. Topics may include the legitimacy of the state, political obligation, the nature and demands of justice, equality, liberty, and autonomy. Selected readings may be drawn from historical as well as contemporary sources.#
&PHIL 2455 | Introduction to Bioethics&
#Bioethics is the study of ethical questions raised by advances in the medical field. Questions we'll discuss will include: Is it morally permissible to advance a patient's death, at his or her request, to reduce suffering? Is there a moral difference between killing someone and letting someone die? What ethical issues are raised by advance care planning? What is it to die? What forms of cognitive decline or physical change could you survive (and still be you)? On the flip side, were you ever a fetus? How should the rights of pregnant women be balanced against those of the fetus? Should parents be given control over the genetic make-up of their children? Are some forms of human enhancement morally troubling? Should we aim to be better than well? What is it to be disabled?  How should scarce health care resources or costly therapies be allocated to those in need? Should organ sales be permitted? Should medical treatment (or health insurance!) ever be compulsory, or is mandating treatment unacceptably paternalistic? Should doctors or hospitals be permitted to refuse to provide certain medical services that violate their consciences?#
&PHIL 2471 | Ethical Issues in Engineering Practice&
#This course surveys a range of ethical issues that arise in professional engineering, and provides discussion-based practice in analyzing and addressing them. Using normative frameworks from professional codes, philosophical ethics, value-sensitive design, feminist theory, and science & technology studies, the course engages with a series of historical, current, and fictional case studies, across a wide variety of engineering disciplines. Specific topics to be discussed may include: privacy, consumer rights, smart cities, geoengineering, artificial intelligence, and cloning. Instruction is through a mix of lectures and discussions.#
&PHIL 2530 | Religion and Reason&
#What must (or could) God be like, and what reasons do we have for thinking that a being of that sort actually exists? What difference would (or could) the existence of God make to our lives? Religion & Reason examines the idea, shared by several major world religions, that God must be an absolutely perfect being. What attributes must a perfect being have: must it have a mind, be a person, care for human beings? Is the concept of a perfect being coherent? Is the existence of a perfect being compatible with the presence of evil in the world, the existence of human freedom, the nature of the world as modern science understands it? Does what is morally right and wrong depend in any important way on the nature or will of a perfect being? Is a perfect being among the things that actually inhabit our universe? The course approaches these questions with the tools and methods of philosophical reason and through readings drawn from both classic texts and contemporary philosophical discussion.#
&PHIL 2570 | Introduction to Ancient Chinese Philosophy and Literature&
#This course is a survey of ancient Chinese philosophy (prior to the Qin Dynasty of the late third century BCE) and its influence on Chinese literature and aesthetics of the subsequent dynasties. We will focus on the primary texts by key philosophers of the Confucian, Daoist, Mohist, and Legalist schools. We will examine how the secular moral ideal and the transcendent ideal of Chinese aesthetics arise from the Confucian and Daoist schools of thoughts. We will also study their subsequent interplay in folk poetry, Xuanyan (metaphysical or philosophical) poetry, and Shanshui (landscape) poetry from the Han Dynasty to the Tang Dynasty.#
&PHIL 2611 | Knowledge and Belief&
#This course will introduce students to some central questions in epistemology (often defined as the philosophical study of knowledge), using both contemporary and historical readings. For example, we will examine our reliance on experts and testimony for our knowledge, the status of reports concerning miraculous or 'scientifically impossible' events, and the epistemology of conspiracy theories. We will also consider questions of disagreement and pluralism when it comes to controversial matters such as politics and religion.#
&PHIL 2960 | Ethics and the Environment&
#Politicians, scientists, and citizens worldwide face many environmental issues today, but they are neither simple nor straightforward. Moreover, there are many ways to understand how we have, do, and could value the environment from animal rights and wise use to deep ecology and ecofeminism. This class acquaints students with some of the challenging moral issues that arise in the context of environmental management and policy-making, both in the past and the present. Environmental concerns also highlight important economic, epistemological, legal, political, and social issues in assessing our moral obligations to nature as well as other humans. This course examines various perspectives expressed in both contemporary and historical debates over environmental ethics by exploring four central questions: What is nature? Who counts in environmental ethics? How do we know nature? Whose nature?#
&PHIL 2990 | Foundations of Law and Society&
#This course explores the meaning of Law and Society, which is an interdisciplinary study of the interactive nature of legal and social forces. A law and society perspective places law in its historical, social, and cultural context, studying the dynamic way in which law shapes social norms, policy, and institutions, and conversely, the way that social forces shape the law. This Foundations of Law and Society course is structured as a series of four modules, each taught by a faculty member from a different discipline. The modules will introduce students to a range of disciplinary methods and content related to the study of the interaction of law with social, political, and economic institutions and relationships.#
&PHIL 3202 | Plato&
#We will study several of Plato's major dialogues, including the Apology, the Meno, Phaedo, and Republic. Topics include knowledge and reality, morality and happiness, and the nature of the soul.#
&PHIL 3212 | Philosophy in the Islamic World (800-1400)&
#An introduction to some of the major thinkers and philosophical developments in the Islamic world from the 9th to the 14th centuries CE. Figures include Muslim thinkers such as Al-Kindī, Al-Rāzī, Al-Fārābī, Ibn Sīnā (Avicenna), Al-Ghazālī, and Ibn Rushd (Averroes) as well as important representatives of the Jewish tradition such as Moses ben Maimon (Maimonides). Themes include philosophical theology (the existence and nature of God, God's relation to the created world, prophecy, the place of reason in religion), metaphysics (the nature of existence, fundamental ontology, causality), mind and knowledge (the nature and mechanisms of cognition, our knowledge of ourselves and the world), and ethics and political philosophy (how best to live and organize the state).#
&PHIL 3250 | Nineteenth Century Philosophy&
#Survey of nineteenth century philosophy.#
&PHIL 3305 | Math for Philosophy&
#This course introduces the mathematical methods used in many areas of contemporary philosophy without any assumed mathematical background. It will also cover some of the basic applications of these methods in a range of subfields within philosophy. The course consists of six units: 1. Basic Set theory; 2. Relations (applications in metaphysics); 3. Semantics (applications in metaphysics and epistemology); 4. Probabilities (applications in epistemology and philosophy of science); 5. Decision Theory (applications in ethics); 5. Game Theory (applications in philosophy of language and social philosophy). Other units and applications may be included depending on time and interest.#
&PHIL 3475 | Philosophy of Punishment&
#This course addresses central debates in the philosophy of legal punishment. We will analyze the leading theories of punishment, including the familiar retributivist and deterrent alternatives, as well as lesser-known hybrid, self-defense, and rehabilitative accounts. We will ask whether each theory offers a general justification for establishing institutions of punishment, and whether each theory justifies specific acts of punishment. Other topics may include criminal responsibility, the legitimacy of collateral consequences (e.g., the denial of felons' voting rights), alternatives to punishment, etc.#
&PHIL 3900 | Independent Study&
#To be taken only in exceptional circumstances. Must be arranged by the student with his or her advisor and the faculty member who has agreed to direct the study.#
&PHIL 3915 | Moral Psychology in Action&
#Moral Psychology in Action is an applied psychology course for students who want to make a difference in the world through ethical leadership and positive contributions in organizations, and who are drawn to scholarly work on psychology, ethics, and morality.  The course is experiential and takes place mostly outside the classroom through students' individualized partnerships in community organizations, businesses, and institutions.  Learning outcomes include enhanced critical reflection, intercultural competence, ethical practice, and the practice of applied moral psychology research methods.#
&PHIL 4200 | Topics in Ancient Philosophy&
#Advanced discussion of topics in ancient philosophy. Topics vary by instructors.#
&PHIL 4720 | Pragmatics&
#What is the relationship between what words mean and how they are used? What is part of the grammar and what is a result of general reasoning? Pragmatics is often thought of as the study of how meaning depends on the context of utterance. However, it can be difficult to draw a line between pragmatics and semantics. In this course, we will investigate various topics that walk this line, including varieties of linguistic inference (including entailment and implicature), the pragmatics and compositional semantics of presupposition, anaphora and dynamic semantics, the semantics and pragmatics of focus, indexicals, and speech acts.#
&PHIL 4900 | Informal Study for Honors I&
#Majors in philosophy may choose to pursue writing of an honors thesis in their senior year. Students undertake research leading to the writing of an honors essay by the end of the final semester. Prospective candidates should apply at the Department of Philosophy office, 218 Goldwin Smith Hall.#
&PHIL 4901 | Informal Study for Honors II&
#Majors in philosophy may choose to pursue writing of an honors thesis in their senior year. Students undertake research leading to the writing of an honors essay by the end of the final semester. Prospective candidates should apply at the Department of Philosophy office, 218 Goldwin Smith Hall.#
&PHIL 6010 | Greek Philosophical Texts&
#Reading and translation of Greek Philosophical texts.#
&PHIL 6020 | Latin Philosophical Texts&
#Reading and translation of Latin philosophical texts.#
&PHIL 6200 | Topics in Ancient Philosophy&
#Advanced discussion of topics in ancient philosophy. Topics vary by instructors.#
&PHIL 6202 | Plato&
#For description, see PHIL 3202.#
&PHIL 6210 | Topics in Medieval Philosophy&
#Graduate seminar covering a topic in medieval philosophy. Spring 2025 Topics include: Augustine; Philosophy in the Islamic World (800-1400).#
&PHIL 6220 | Topics in Modern Philosophy&
#Advanced discussion of topics or authors in "modern" Western philosophy (circa the 17th and 18th centuries).#
&PHIL 6305 | Math for Philosophy&
#This course introduces the mathematical methods used in many areas of contemporary philosophy without any assumed mathematical background. It will also cover some of the basic applications of these methods in a range of subfields within philosophy. The course consists of six units: 1. Basic Set theory; 2. Relations (applications in metaphysics); 3. Semantics (applications in metaphysics and epistemology); 4. Probabilities (applications in epistemology and philosophy of science); 5. Decision Theory (applications in ethics); 5. Game Theory (applications in philosophy of language and social philosophy). Other units and applications may be included depending on time and interest.#
&PHIL 6410 | Seminar in Ethics and Value Theory&
#Graduate seminar covering a topic in ethics and value theory.#
&PHIL 6425 | Topics in Meta-Ethics&
#Advanced discussion of a topic in meta-ethics.#
&PHIL 6475 | Philosophy of Punishment&
#This course addresses central debates in the philosophy of legal punishment. We will analyze the leading theories of punishment, including the familiar retributivist and deterrent alternatives, as well as lesser-known hybrid, self-defense, and rehabilitative accounts. We will ask whether each theory offers a general justification for establishing institutions of punishment, and whether each theory justifies specific acts of punishment. Other topics may include criminal responsibility, the legitimacy of collateral consequences (e.g., the denial of felons' voting rights), alternatives to punishment, etc.#
&PHIL 6720 | Pragmatics&
#What is the relationship between what words mean and how they are used?  What is part of the grammar and what is a result of general reasoning?  Pragmatics is often thought of as the study of how meaning depends on the context of utterance.  However, it can be difficult to draw a line between pragmatics and semantics.  In this course, we will investigate various topics that walk this line, including varieties of linguistic inference including entailment, presupposition, and implicature), anaphora, indexicals, and speech acts.#
&PHIL 6731 | Semantics II&
#Uses the techniques introduced in Semantics I to analyze linguistic phenomena, including quantifier scope, ellipsis, and referential pronouns. Temporal and possible worlds semantics are introduced and used in the analysis of modality, tense, and belief sentences. The phenomena of presupposition, indefinite descriptions, and anaphora are analyzed in a dynamic compositional framework that formalizes the idea that sentence meaning effects a change in an information state.#
&PHIL 6963 | Queer Marxism&
#Are queer theory and Marxism truly irreconcilable? While queer studies emerged in part as a rejection of Marxism's totalizing approach and Marxists have criticized the queer emphasis on individuals, this seminar explores the potential of bringing the two fields together. We will consider how queer critiques of reproductive futurism, racial capitalism, and homonationalism can transform the legacy of Marxist theory and practice. At the same time, we will examine Marxist notions of totality, reification, and value to reenvision the scope of queer politics. After covering these key Marxist and queer theoretical concepts, the seminar will turn to transnational Marxist debates on gender and sexuality in Weimar Germany and the Soviet Union. We will conclude the seminar with a discussion of new scholarship in the emergent field of queer Marxism and a symposium with presentations by seminar participants.#
&PHIL 7000 | Informal Study&
#Independent study for graduate students only.#
&PHIL 7950 | Philosophy Discussion Club Colloquium&
#Invited talks in philosophy given by both outside speakers and members of the Cornell community. Enrollment for credit is required for first- and second-year philosophy graduate students.#


$PHYS | Physics$
&PHYS 1012 | Physics 1112 Supplement&
#Provides auxiliary instruction and practice for PHYS 1112 and promotes a deep understanding of basic concepts in mechanics. Recommended for students who seek additional opportunities to engage with course content, to gain confidence in applying physics principals, or to develop their problem-solving skills. Class time is also spent exploring real-life applications and discussing strategies for successful learning and performance in PHYS 1112 .#
&PHYS 1013 | Physics 2213 Supplement&
#Provides auxiliary instruction and practice for PHYS 2213 and promotes a deep understanding of basic concepts in electromagnetism. Recommended for students who seek additional opportunities to engage with course content, to gain confidence in applying physics principals, or to develop their problem-solving skills. Class time is also spent exploring real-life applications and discussing strategies for successful learning and performance in PHYS 2213 .#
&PHYS 1102 | General Physics II&
#PHYS 1101 and PHYS 1102 emphasize both quantitative and conceptual understanding of the topics and tools of introductory physics developed without the use of calculus. The courses offer individualized instruction. Students learn through completing assigned readings, problems, and laboratory exercises, and through individualized tutoring. Additionally, recorded lectures, overview sessions, short videos, sample tests, and online tutorials are provided. The course format provides flexibility, but in some ways is more demanding than a course with a traditional format. Success requires discipline and well-developed study habits. Students without high school physics should allow extra time. Evaluation includes an oral lab check, a selection of graded homework problems, and a written test for each unit; these must be completed within a flexible set of deadlines. Major topics for PHYS 1102: electric and magnetic forces and fields, electric currents and circuits, electromagnetic induction, alternating current, electromagnetic waves, optics, interference and diffraction, relativity, quantum physics, and nuclear physics. At the level of College Physics, 5th edition, by Giambattista.#
&PHYS 1110 | Introduction to Experimental Physics&
#This laboratory course is an introduction to the nature and skills of experimentation in physics. Students will engage in multi-week investigations, creatively design their own experiments, and explore questions of how we develop models in physics through experiments. Students will learn how to design experiments, analyze data, develop interesting research questions, and consider issues of ethics in physics experiments. Students will also develop communication and collaboration skills. The course aims to provide an opportunity for students to consider the nature of measurement and experimentation and evaluate the relationship between physical theories and experimental data.#
&PHYS 1112 | Physics I: Mechanics and Heat&
#First course in a three-semester introductory physics sequence. This course is taught in a largely "flipped', highly interactive manner, with reading preparation and online reading quizzes required for class. Covers the mechanics of particles with focus on kinematics, dynamics, conservation laws, central force fields, periodic motion.&nbsp;Mechanics of many-particle systems: center of mass, rotational mechanics of a rigid body, translational & rotational equilibrium. Temperature, heat, the laws of thermodynamics. At the level of University Physics, Vol. 1, by Young and Freedman.#
&PHYS 1116 | Physics I: Mechanics and Special Relativity&
#First in a three-semester introductory physics sequence. Explores quantitative modeling of the physical world through a study of mechanics. More mathematical than a typical mechanics course - for example, considers how choice of coordinate system (Cartesian, cylindrical, etc.) influences the nature of kinematical equations. Includes kinematics, dynamics, conservation laws, central force fields, periodic motion, and special relativity. At the level of An Introduction to Mechanics by Kleppner and Kolenkow, which assumes a strong mathematical foundation in calculus.#
&PHYS 1190 | Introductory Laboratory (Transfer Supplement)&
#Students perform the laboratory component of one of the introductory courses ( PHYS 1101 , PHYS 1102 , PHYS 2207, PHYS 2208,  PHYS 2214) to complement the lecture-related course credit acquired elsewhere. Those wishing to take equivalent of one of these introductory courses at another institution should receive prior approval from the physics director of undergraduate studies.#
&PHYS 1203 | Physics of the Heavens and the Earth&
#This course offers an opportunity to discuss fundamental ideas about the physical world, the applications of these ideas to big questions in modern physics, and the relationship between physics, fundamental science, and society. By the end of the course, students will be able to: 1) Describe and discuss fundamental concepts in physics such as forces, linearand rotational motion, and energy, 2) Apply those fundamental physics concepts to discuss cutting edge physics ideas such as special and general relativity, quantum mechanics, gravitational waves, black holes, and particle physics, 3) Use examples of historical investigations to explore how scientific knowledge develops and evolves over time, 4) Consider how fundamental physics relates to students' major and career interests and to society more broadly, such as to debate the role and funding of fundamental research, understand issues of representation and diversity in science, and evaluate how science is perceived by the public, and 5) Not immediately respond "I hate physics" and maybe even look back fondly or be inspired to learn more beyond this course.#
&PHYS 2208 | Fundamentals of Physics II&
#PHYS 2208 follows PHYS 2207 in the two-semester introduction to physics intended for students majoring in biological science, physical science, or mathematics. PHYS 2208 provides a rich exposure to the methods of physics and to the basic analytical and scientific skills required by all scientists. Lectures are highly interactive and illustrated with applications from the sciences, medicine, and everyday life. Labs highlight lecture topics via a hands-on environment. Recitation sections reinforce the lecture topics via cooperative problem-solving. The course content includes electricity and magnetism, optics, and topics from quantum mechanics, nuclear physics and particle physics.#
&PHYS 2210 | Exploring Experimental Physics&
#In this laboratory course, students will build on the knowledge and skills developed in Physics 1110 (Introduction to Experimental Physics) to conduct semester-long experimental physics projects. Students will work in lab project teams to iteratively develop a research question, write a proposal that is reviewed by their peers and experts, engage for multiple weeks with their project, and present their findings in a public poster session at the end of the semester. Students will learn additional skills in experimental design and data analysis, with broader focuses on how to generate interesting, testable, and feasible research questions, how to provide critical and constructive feedback to others, and how to present research to a broad audience. The course provides an early opportunity for students to get a glimpse of experimental physics research, employ creativity to generate an answer to a novel research question and/or design a unique experimental approach.#
&PHYS 2213 | Physics II: Electromagnetism&
#Second course in a three semester introductory physics sequence. The course emphasizes active learning during class. Video lectures are viewed before class; most class time is devoted to problem-solving.  Topics include: electric forces and fields, electric energy and potential, circuits, magnetic forces and fields, magnetic induction, and Maxwell's equations. Taught at a level somewhat higher than University Physics, Vol. 2, by Young and Freedman. The math prerequisite is essential: line, surface, and volume integrals are done routinely and occasional use is made of gradient, divergence, and curl.#
&PHYS 2214 | Physics III: Oscillations, Waves, and Quantum Physics&
#For majors in engineering (including bio-, civil, and environmental engineering), computer and information science, physics, earth and atmospheric science, and other physical and biological sciences who wish to understand the oscillation, wave, and quantum phenomena behind everyday experiences and modern technology including scientific/medical instrumentation. Covers the physics of oscillations and wave phenomena, including driven oscillations and resonance, mechanical waves, sound waves, electromagnetic waves, standing waves, Doppler effect, polarization, wave reflection and transmission, interference, diffraction, geometric optics and optical instruments, wave properties of particles, particles in potential wells, light emission and absorption, and quantum tunneling. With applications to phenomena and measurement technologies in engineering, the physical sciences, and biological sciences.  Some familiarity with differential equations, complex representation of sinusoids, and Fourier analysis is desirable but not essential. As with PHYS 1112 and PHYS 2213, pre-class preparation involves reading notes and/or watching videos, and in-class activities focus on problem solving, demonstrations, and applications.#
&PHYS 2216 | Introduction to Special Relativity&
#Introduction to Einstein's Theory of Special Relativity, including Galilean and Lorentz transformations, the concept of simultaneity, time dilation and Lorentz contraction, the relativistic transformations of velocity, momentum and energy, and relativistic invariance in the laws of physics. At the level of An Introduction to Mechanics by Kleppner and Kolenkow.#
&PHYS 2217 | Physics II: Electricity and Magnetism&
#Second in a three semester introductory physics sequence. Explores quantitative modeling of the physical world through a study of electricity and magnetism. More mathematical and abstract than a typical introductory electricity and magnetism course. Topics include electrostatics, behavior of matter in electric fields, circuits, magnetic fields, Faraday's law, AC circuits, and electromagnetic waves. Makes substantial use of vector calculus. At the level of Electricity and Magnetism by Purcell.#
&PHYS 2218 | Physics III: Waves and Thermal Physics&
#This course is divided into two parts. The larger segment of the course typically focuses on wave phenomena. Topics include: coupled harmonic oscillators, strings, sound and light waves, superposition principle, wave equations, Fourier series and transforms, diffraction and interference. The discussion is at the level of The Physics of Waves by Georgi. The second segment of the course covers thermodynamics and statistical mechanics at the level of Thermal Physics by Schroeder.#
&PHYS 3310 | Intermediate Experimental Physics&
#Would you find it appealing to operate a physical system that allows you to sharply distinguishes between rational and irrational numbers? How about using a microwave thermometer to measure the temperature of a distant object namely the sun's outer surface? Would you like to measure fundamentals of nature, such as the charge to mass ratio of the electron, or the atomic structure of Hydrogen? In Physics 3310, you will have experiences such as these as you decide for yourself how valid or applicable various theoretical results are that you have already encountered or look forward to encountering in 3000 level intermediate level courses such as  quantum and classical mechanics and electrodynamics. You'll acquire  essential skills to tease out the truth about nature as an experimental physicist with particular emphasis on the awareness and management of uncertainty. The environment of 3310 promotes individual creativity and discovery with the encouragement and aid of coursemates and staff.#
&PHYS 3316 | Basics of Quantum Mechanics&
#Topics include breakdown of classical concepts in microphysics; light quanta and matter waves; Schrödinger equation and solutions for square well, harmonic oscillator, and the hydrogen atom; wave packets, scattering and tunneling effects, angular momentum, spin, and magnetic moments. At the level of An Introduction to Quantum Physics by French and Taylor and Introduction to Quantum Physics by Griffiths.#
&PHYS 3318 | Analytical Mechanics&
#Covers Newtonian mechanics of particles and systems of particles, including Lagrangian and Hamiltonian formulations, conservation laws from symmetries, with applications to two-body orbits in a central force, systems undergoing small amplitude oscillations, rigid body motion, motion in non-inertial reference frames, perturbation theory, and nonlinear behavior. Both analytical and numerical methods for solving problems in mechanics are covered. At the level of Classical Mechanics by Goldstein, Mechanics by Landau and Lifshitz, and Analytical Mechanics by Hand and Finch.#
&PHYS 3360 | Electronic Circuits&
#Practical electronics as encountered in a scientific or engineering research/development environment. Analyze, design, build, and test circuits using discrete components and integrated circuits. Analog circuits: resistors, capacitors, operational amplifiers, feedback amplifiers, oscillators, comparators, passive and active filters, diodes, and transistor switches and amplifiers. Digital circuits: combinational and sequential logic (gates, flipflops, registers, counters, timers), analog to digital (ADC) and digital to analog (DAC) conversion, signal averaging, and computer architecture and interfacing. Additional topics may include analog and digital signal processing, light wave communications, transducers, noise reduction techniques, and computer-aided circuit design. At the level of Art of Electronics by Horowitz and Hill.#
&PHYS 4400 | Informal Advanced Laboratory&
#Experiments of widely varying difficulty in one or more areas, as listed under PHYS 4410, may be done to fill the student's special requirements.#
&PHYS 4410 | Advanced Experimental Physics&
#Over 30 available experiments on various topics including atomic and molecular spectroscopy, optics, condensed matter physics, nuclear physics, electrical and microwave circuits, x-rays, and magnetic resonance. Each student selects and performs two experiments and completes one project. Independent work is stressed, and scientific writing and presentation skills are emphasized. Weekly lectures will cover techniques and skills necessary for the class and experimental physics in general.#
&PHYS 4443 | Intermediate Quantum Mechanics&
#Provides an introduction to concepts and techniques of quantum mechanics, at the level of An Introduction to Quantum Mechanics by Griffiths.#
&PHYS 4444 | Introduction to Particle Physics&
#Covers the standard model of particle physics; Introduction to fields and particles and relativistic Quantum Mechanics; Symmetries in physics; Basic introduction the Feynman diagrams. At the level of Introduction to Elementary Particles by Griffiths or Modern Elementary Particle Physics by Kane.#
&PHYS 4484 | Teaching and Learning Physics&
#This 1.5-hour weekly seminar provides undergraduate and graduate students with an introduction to core concepts in teaching and learning physics. Participants read and discuss articles and videos, reflect on their own teaching and learning experiences, and engage in collaborative activities that help them become more effective teachers, learners, and communicators. This seminar is especially valuable for those considering teaching physics at some point in their careers, or who want to improve their own physics learning skills. Topics may include: question types and questioning strategies; classroom discourse; neurological basis of learning; expertise acquisition and expert performance; deliberate practice; misconceptions, mental models and conceptual change; mindsets and psychological interventions; classroom diversity and microaggressions; multiple intelligences and multiple representations; metacognition; active learning; the nature of science; the qualities of effective teachers; and evaluating teaching and learning.#
&PHYS 4485 | Teaching Experience I&
#Designed to provide qualified undergraduate students who possess an interest in teaching with a structured experience teaching physics.  Participants collaborate with instructors and graduate teaching assistants to facilitate cooperative learning sessions, laboratory investigations, or homework help sessions.  Total weekly time commitment is 3-4 hours, including instructional contact time (2 hours), preparation time, and instructional staff meeting time.#
&PHYS 4486 | Teaching Experience II&
#Teaching experience for qualified undergraduate students in PHYS 1101/PHYS 1102. Contact time will be in the course's Learning Center, in a team environment with graduate student TAs and faculty. Activities include tutoring individual students, working with small groups, assisting students with lab experiments, and participating in course development initiatives.#
&PHYS 4487 | Teaching Experience III&
#Continuation of PHYS 4486. Teaching experience for qualified undergraduate students to help with PHYS 1101/PHYS 1102. Contact time will be in the course's Learning Center, in a team environment with graduate student TAs and faculty. Activities include tutoring individual students, working with small groups, assisting students with lab experiments, and participating in course development initiatives.#
&PHYS 4488 | Statistical Mechanics&
#This course focuses on those topics in statistical mechanics of interest to scholars in many fields. Topics include random walks and emergent properties; temperature and equilibrium; phase space dynamics and ergodicity; entropy; free energies; quantum statistical mechanics; calculation and computation; order parameters, broken symmetries, and topology; correlations, response, and dissipation; abrupt phase transitions; and continuous phase transitions, fractals, and the renormalization group. Taught in conjunction with the graduate course PHYS 6562, this version is advised for undergraduates and interested graduates outside of Physics.#
&PHYS 4490 | Independent Study in Physics&
#Individual project work (reading or laboratory) in any branch of physics.  Products vary, but may include a thesis. Evaluation criteria are decided between student and faculty member.#
&PHYS 4499 | Senior Thesis II&
#The second half of a two-semester thesis course involving physics-related research under the direct supervision of a faculty member. The thesis research may take many forms including but not restricted to : theoretical calculations, design of instrumentation, experimental research, or numerical simulations. Students wishing to pursue the senior thesis must submit a proposal, with the approval of a faculty supervisor, in spring of their junior year.#
&PHYS 4688 | Topics in Accelerator Physics&
#No description available.#
&PHYS 6500 | Informal Graduate Laboratory&
#Experiments of widely varying difficulty in one or more areas, as listed under PHYS 6510, may be done to fill special requirements.#
&PHYS 6510 | Advanced Experimental Physics&
#Over 30 available experiments on various topics including atomic and molecular spectroscopy, optics, condensed matter physics, nuclear physics, electrical and microwave circuits, x-rays, and magnetic resonance. Each student selects and performs two experiments and completes one project. Independent work is stressed, and scientific writing and presentation skills are emphasized. Weekly lectures will cover techniques and skills necessary for the class and experimental physics in general.#
&PHYS 6520 | Projects in Experimental Physics&
#Projects of modern topical interest that involve some independent development work by student. Opportunity for more initiative in experimental work than is possible in PHYS 6510.#
&PHYS 6525 | High Energy Astrophysics&
#Compact objects (neutron stars, black holes and white dwarfs) are the endpoints of stellar evolution. They are responsible for some of the most exotic phenomena in the universe such as supernovae, magnetars, gamma-ray bursts, neutron star and black hole mergers.  Supermassive black holes also lie at the heart of the violent processes in active galactic nuclei. The study of compact objects allows one to probe physics under extreme conditions (high densities, strong magnetic fields, and gravity). This course surveys the astrophysics of compact stars and related subjects. Emphasis is on the application of diverse theoretical physics tools to various observations of compact stars. There are no astronomy or general relativity prerequisites.#
&PHYS 6554 | General Relativity II&
#A continuation of PHYS 6553 and ASTRO 6509 that covers a variety of advanced topics and applications of general relativity in astrophysics, cosmology, and high-energy physics.#
&PHYS 6562 | Statistical Physics I&
#A broad, graduate level view of statistical mechanics, with applications to not only physics and chemistry, but to computation, mathematics, dynamical and complex systems, and biology. Some traditional focus areas will not be covered in detail (thermodynamics, phase diagrams, perturbative methods, interacting gasses and liquids).#
&PHYS 7636 | Solid-State Physics II&
#Continuation of PHYS 7635. The course is structured in two parts. The first half is on setting up the formalism and language of correlation function and responses that are used to define properties of phases. The second half is on applying the formalism to different symmetry broken phases (magnetism, superconductivity) and topological phases. The second half will also include topical subjects that are at the frontier of research.#
&PHYS 7652 | Relativistic Quantum Field Theory II&
#A continuation of PHYS 7651. Introduces more advanced methods and concepts in quantum field theory. Topics include functional integral methods, quantization of spin-1 fields, quantum electrodynamics, non-Abelian gauge theories, renormalization group techniques, spontaneous symmetry breaking, and anomalies. At the level of An Introduction to Quantum Field Theory by Peskin and Schroeder.#
&PHYS 7684 | Teaching and Learning Physics&
#This 1.5-hour weekly seminar provides undergraduate and graduate students with an introduction to core concepts in physics education. Participants discuss articles and videos drawn from physics and science education research and from cognitive science, and engage in collaborative activities that help them become more effective teachers, communicators and learners. This seminar is especially valuable for those considering teaching physics at some point in their careers. Topics include: Questioning Strategies, Classroom Discourse, Teaching through misconceptions, Argumentation approach to instruction, Learning Theory, Conceptions and Conceptual Change and Fixed vs Growth Mind-set, Science communication. Text: Articles from science, engineering, and math education journals.#
&PHYS 7687 | Special Topics in Physics&
#Graduate Topics course; topics change every year.#
&PHYS 7688 | Topics in Accelerator Physics&
#No description available.#
&PHYS 7690 | Independent Study in Physics&
#Special graduate study in some branch of physics, either theoretical or experimental, under the direction of any professorial member of the staff.#


$PLSCI | Plant Sciences$
&PLSCI 1102 | Hands-On Horticulture for Gardeners&
#The objective is to instill in students a lifelong appreciation for how gardening can enhance individual well-being through aesthetics, culinary experiences, and mastery of techniques. Emphasizes hands-on learning and practice of key gardening skills and techniques in the greenhouse and the field, such as landscape management, garden design, propagation, pruning, grafting, pest management, and flower arrangement.#
&PLSCI 1115 | The Nature of Plants&
#An introductory course that examines plant diversity, function, and adaptation. Topics include an introduction to plant community structure, relationships between plants and other organisms, how plants cope in their environments, and plant-human interactions. This course is suitable for life sciences majors.#
&PLSCI 1130 | Light and Life: The Relationship between Light and Life in the Natural World&
#By most accounts, whether theological or scientific, light is fundamental for life. Throughout the living world, there are vital processes, such as photosynthesis and vision that are associated with light. Living organisms use the daily and seasonal changes in illumination to regulate their rhythms. However, too much of a good thing is not necessarily a good thing as too much light can result in photodamage. The extraordinary relationship between "light and life" provides an important unifying framework for understanding the luminescence of living organisms, the striking and flamboyant coloration of plants and animals as well as the inconspicuous nature of their camouflage in terms of physics, chemistry and biology. This course will enhance your understanding of the natural world through studying the relationships between light and life. This course is suitable for life sciences majors.#
&PLSCI 1150 | CSI: Forensic Botany&
#Plant-based evidence has been an important component in solving crimes for centuries. Modern techniques and facilities have made plant evidence more important and useful than ever, and there are some stunning examples of trials where plant evidence played a critical roles in the outcomes. We will blend criminal cases and plant science in this course. We will review important cases that have involved and even depended upon significant plant-based evidence. Along the way, students will learn, at the introductory level, the plant science needed to appreciate the importance of plant-based evidence in crime solving. An overriding but intrinsic theme will be how the scientific method is useful and integral to applying logic to a body of plant-based evidence in specific cases. This course is suitable for life sciences majors.#
&PLSCI 1420 | Functional Plant Biology&
#This course is an overview of basic plant structure and function. We will survey the basic cell types, tissues and organs that make up the plant body as related to the physiology (functions) of a plant. The goal is to provide a sound foundation in basic plant biology and preparation for higher-level coursework. The laboratory portion of this course is designed to review the material covered in lecture, as well as introduce students to the investigative nature of scientific research. Students will get experience in experimental design, scientific method, and analysis of data collected through experimentation. This course is suitable for life sciences majors.#
&PLSCI 2010 | Magical Mushrooms, Mischievous Molds&
#Presentation of the fungi and how they shape our civilizations and the natural world in which we live. Fungi play important roles in pressing issues in agriculture, food security, climate, disease, and environment. This class emphasizes the significance of fungi as decayers of organic matter, as pathogens and symbionts of plants and animals, as food, and as sources of mind-altering chemicals.#
&PLSCI 2013 | Mushrooms, Molds and More&
#Presentation of the fungi and their roles in nature and in shaping past and present civilizations. Emphasizes the historical and practical significance of fungi as decayers of organic matter, as pathogens of plants and animals, as food, and as sources of mind-altering chemicals. Lectures and exams for this course are the same as those in PLSCI 2010. However, students in this course also participate in a weekly 55-minute discussion section where they grow mushrooms and other fungi in culture, learn about contemporary classification of fungi, see examples of major taxa growing on natural substrates, and determine whether suspect pathogens really can kill agricultural crops. Students also teach their peers about the fungus world with presentations of their own creation. This course is suitable for non-life sciences majors.#
&PLSCI 2020 | Foods of the Future&
#The class is intended to provide insight and exposure to the unique challenges associated with the changing dynamics and markets of fresh produce. It is targeted at students with an interest in plants and food in general to better understand how current and future changes affect the availability, diversity and access of foods including the influence on, and creation of new markets. The class will focus on real world issues addressing changes in production environments, aesthetics, markets, postharvest quality and consumer demands. Among the diverse challenges involved in addressing future needs include the changing consumer quality and aesthetic expectations, changing market dynamics, year-round consistency, nutrition, production, global markets and targeting of new controlled environment production approaches.#
&PLSCI 2250 | Plant Genetics&
#Surveys fundamental plant genetics with a focus on applications in agriculture and plant sciences. Reviews and extends concepts from introductory biology for students with an interest in plants and their contributions to food, fiber, biofuels, ornamentals and ecology. Also preparation for advanced coursework in genetics for students considering graduate studies in a related field. Unique topics include polyploidy and organellar inheritance, pollination, seed saving and basic plant breeding. Companion lab exercises follow a generation of pea breeding and includes plant pollination techniques, DNA extraction and sequencing, molecular markers.#
&PLSCI 2253 | Lectures in Plant Genetics&
#Surveys fundamental plant genetics with a focus on applications in agriculture and plant sciences. Reviews and extends concepts from introductory biology for students with an interest in plants and their contributions to food, fiber, biofuels, ornamentals and ecology. Also preparation for advanced coursework in genetics for students considering graduate studies in a related field. Unique topics include polyploidy and organellar inheritance, pollination, seed saving and basic plant breeding.#
&PLSCI 2302 | Vegetational Analysis of the Patagonian Region&
#This is a reflective lecture course, following the winter session field course, PLSCI 2301. Students will write a reflection and give an oral presentation; assemble and analyze field data; and as a group, write a scientific report. In addition, the students will produce a report on the trip, detailing places visited and illustrating the trip with color images.#
&PLSCI 2430 | Ecology and Evolution of Plants&
#In this course, we will explore the fundamental principles of ecology and evolutionary biology from a plant perspective. We will introduce you to plant ecology at scales ranging from individual organisms, to populations, communities, and ecosystems. At each level, we will explore interactions between plants and their environments, with a focus on societally-relevant issues and the ecological theories needed to understand them. This course also provides a comprehensive overview of microevolution (evolution at or below the species level) and macroevolution (evolution above the species level) with an emphasis on plants as exemplars for understanding evolutionary theory and the interpretation of data pertaining to evolutionary patterns and processes.#
&PLSCI 2490 | Hollywood Biology: Science in Cinema&
#Biological subjects presented in Hollywood films. Lecture topics include the scientific method, Darwinism, development, paleobiology, animal cloning, genome sequencing, forensic DNA, artificial intelligence, eugenics, and epidemiology as background to discussions of their presentation in selected films. Themes: genetics/genomics; evolution; development; epidemiology; physical anthropology; and genetic engineering. This course is suitable for non-life sciences majors.#
&PLSCI 2990 | Introduction to Research Methods in Plant Science&
#Intended for students who are new to undergraduate research. Students enrolled in PLSCI 2990 may be reading scientific literature, learning research techniques, or assisting with ongoing research. The faculty supervisor determines the work goals and the form of the final report.#
&PLSCI 3420 | Plant Physiology, Lectures&
#Integrated and interdisciplinary study of the processes that contribute to the growth, competition, and reproduction of plants. Topics include, but are not limited to, plant-water relations, membrane properties and processes, photosynthesis, plant respiration, mineral and organic nutrition, stress physiology, control of growth and development, and responses to the environment. Emphasis is on the relationship between structure and function from the molecular to the whole-plant level.#
&PLSCI 3421 | Plant Physiology, Laboratory&
#Experiments exemplify concepts covered in PLSCI 3420 and offer experience in a variety of biological and biochemical techniques, from the cellular to whole plant level, with emphasis on experimental design.#
&PLSCI 3430 | Molecular Biology and Genetic Engineering of Plants&
#Introduction to current studies involving recombinant DNA technology and its application to the improvement of plants. Emphasizes genetic transformation methodology, gene expression systems, and strategies for increasing productivity.#
&PLSCI 3431 | Laboratory in Molecular Biology and Genetic Engineering of Plants&
#Companion to Molecular Biology and Genetic Engineering of Plants course with laboratory activities that focus on the practice of plant biotechnology. Students construct transgenes using recombinant DNA methods, transfer genes to plants by a variety of approaches including tissue culture-based methods, assess the integration of transgenes in the host genome and analyze their expression by use of reporter gene assays and by preparing and analyzing nucleic acids. Students will also gain basic skills in bioinformatics.#
&PLSCI 3550 | Postharvest Biology of Horticultural Crops&
#Study of the biological processes controlling physical and chemical changes in harvested yet living horticultural crops or their parts. Discusses the theoretical principles and fundamental processes underlying these changes. Also covers strategies and practical handling requirements/conditions for storage, transportation, and quality monitoring of harvested horticultural crops.#
&PLSCI 3630 | Soil Genesis, Classification, and Survey&
#Discusses factors and processes of soil formation on which soil survey is based. Practices principles of field identification, classification, survey, and interpretation in a field setting. Provides an overview of soil databases, their content, development, and use for site evaluation and land classification.#
&PLSCI 3650 | Environmental Chemistry: Soil, Air, and Water&
#This course provides an overview of the chemistry of the biosphere and biogeochemical processes that control the concentrations, fluxes, and bioavailability of essential elements and contaminants in soil, air, and water. Describes the history of environmental contamination by xenobiotics and heavy metals, with emphasis on behavior and properties of pollutants that pose the greatest risk to human and ecological health. The course content includes student-led discussion of relevant current events.#
&PLSCI 3880 | Genetic Engineering of Food Crops: Myths, Truths and Detection&
#Genetically modified (GM) crops have been a hot topic with controversy. One of the major concerns is on the GM crops' safety when served as our food or food ingredients. The objective of this one-credit course is to discuss the principles and nature of crop genetic engineering vs. conventional plant breeding, and to show case studies of genetically engineered food crops with emphases on how they are generated, how the nutritional values are improved, and how to detect or examine if one's food may be genetically engineered or may contain GM crop-derived ingredients. This is a middle-level course that emphasizes the science-based principles and practices. An understanding of the basic biological processes involved in GM crops-related food will help students to rationally deal with GMO food and related issues.#
&PLSCI 3940 | Skills for Public Engagement&
#Community engagement provides exciting opportunitiesfor students to learn about the needs of our communities. This course will expose students to the history and importance of public engagement, at Cornell and beyond, and provide practical, hands-on instruction of skills used in public engagement. These skills include public speaking, writing, branding, as well as training in video production and social media. The course will explore strategies for engaging with different community partners including growers, K-12 students and teachers, international communities, and governmental/political/NGO engagement, as well as generational differences and diversity challenges faced within different communities. Colleagues from Cornell Cooperative Extension and across the University with expertise in specific engagement areas will be involved in the course.#
&PLSCI 4000 | Concepts and Techniques in Computational Biology&
#This course is geared towards graduate students and advanced biology undergraduates seeking a better understanding of computational biology. Lectures will be a combination of presentations, paper discussions and hands-on sessions. Labs and paper discussions will have a significant component of plant science, but students from non-plant fields are also encouraged to register. Students will learn to work in a Unix environment, code using Python/R, and deploy tools for genome assembly, RNA-seq data analysis, local and global sequence alignment, protein domain searching using Hidden Markov Models, phylogenetic reconstruction, metabolomic analysis, and machine learning. Lectures will cover the algorithmic concepts underlying popular tools. The students will also learn practical aspects of implementing these tools in their own research using facilities available at Cornell.#
&PLSCI 4040 | Crop Diversity and Genetic Resources&
#Crop genetic diversity is critical for the sustainability, productivity, and resilience of agriculture and food systems. Crop diversity can be measured from the cellular to the landscape scale. Crop diversity relates not only to genetics, ecology, and agricultural management, but also policy, economics, ethics, and culture. This class explores these complex interactions and discusses tools used to evaluate, manage, and conserve crop diversity.#
&PLSCI 4090 | Perennial Crop Breeding Seminar&
#Perennial crops are critical components of sustainable farming systems, and have many environmental benefits including increased biodiversity, water quality, soil conservation, carbon sequestration, productivity, and resilience. Due to the biology of these species, plant breeders seeking to develop perennial crop cultivars face a unique set of challenges and opportunities. This course examines a wide range of perennial crop breeding programs and discusses tools available to breeders, decision-making in perennial crop breeding programs, and opportunities for plant breeding to enhance sustainability and perenniality in cropping systems.#
&PLSCI 4140 | Global Cropping Systems and Sustainable Development&
#With accelerating demands for food, feed, and fiber along with increasing recognition of the importance of agricultural systems to ecosystem services and rural livelihoods, the requirements of agricultural systems are simultaneously intensifying and diversifying. This course introduces foundational concepts that explain the distribution, productivity, and ecological impacts of the world's major cropping systems from an interdisciplinary perspective, including soils, climate and water, markets, policies, and institutions. Through systems thinking and process-based agronomy, an emphasis is placed on assessing solutions for resolving core challenges to the sustainable development goals in the context of global change. Students gain insights into sustainable intensification technologies as well as the social process that support innovation. Evidence synthesis through a geographically-anchored case study and active participation in class discussions are required.#
&PLSCI 4170 | Quantitative Genetics for Analysis and Improvement of Complex Traits&
#This course will provide students with a solid foundation in quantitative genetics theory, as applied to the field of plant and animal breeding, introduce students to modern-day modeling approaches, simulation tools and applications of genomic selection. While the methodologies of plant and animal breeding are distinct in many ways, the core principles are the same, and this course will cover topics in a way that is inclusive of animal breeding applications.#
&PLSCI 4200 | Geographic Information Systems (GIS): Concepts and Application&
#This course introduces the fundamental principles and concepts necessary to carry out meaningful and appropriate geospatial applications using geographic information science (GIS), with a particular emphasis on characterizing, assessing, and understanding agronomic and environmental systems. The course covers key issues in GIS such as geographic coordinate systems, map projections, spatial analysis, use of remotely sensed data, visualization of spatial data, spatial statistics, and spatial modeling. Laboratory exercises include database query, database acquisition, spatial analysis and visualization to address issues in hydrology, ecology, agriculture, and sustainability. Students will gain proficiency with the leading open-source GIS platform, QGIS, and familiarity with commercial GIS software such as ArcGIS Pro.#
&PLSCI 4400 | Phylogenetic Systematics&
#Basic and advanced theory and methods of phylogenetic analysis. Introduces students to cladistic analysis using parsimony and gain experience with computer-aided analysis of taxonomic data, including both morphological and molecular data sources. Topics include applications of phylogenetic methods to biogeography and evolutionary studies.#
&PLSCI 4420 | Mineral Nutrition: From Plants to Humans&
#Plants provide almost all essential minerals for humans and therefore plants are critical components of the human diet. Plant biologists address challenges of meeting the nutritional needs of the increasing world's population by studying plants' ability to uptake, translocate and accumulate mineral nutrients in edible tissues. By integrating basic plant biology with molecular breeding and genomics approaches, fundamental discoveries are utilized to have the greatest impact on solving biofortification of plant-based foods. This team-taught course explores the mechanisms of acquisition of mineral nutrients from the soil, translocation and accumulation in plant tissues, strategies to prevent mineral element deficiencies while avoiding their overload, and toxicity of noxious metals. Selected lectures focus on the relation between the nutrient status of plants and human nutrition and health.#
&PLSCI 4440 | Integrated Pest Management&
#Lectures integrate the principles of pest control, ecology, and economics in the management of pests across multiple systems. Labs consist of exercises to reinforce concepts presented in lecture and demonstrate pest monitoring techniques and the application of computer technology to management problems.#
&PLSCI 4500 | Fruit Crop Physiology&
#We will be studying the physiology of perennial fruit crop production with an emphasis on the biochemical and genetic mechanisms by which fruit crops function and interact with the environment. The class focuses on temperate fruit trees, grapevines, and small-fruits that are commercially grown in the Northeastern U.S., but other species will be highlighted on occasion. Topics include: flower development, pollination and fertilization, cold hardiness, fruit set and growth, plant growth regulators, carbon acquisition and partitioning, soil-root interactions, mineral nutrition, and water transport. Additionally, we will highlight critical challenges to fruit crop production, such as climate change and soil degradation. Course readings will largely come from journal articles. Students will lead and participate in discussions, write a review article, and learn how to evaluate scientific methods.#
&PLSCI 4660 | Soil Ecology&
#Soil ecology is the study of soil organisms and their interactions with each other and with their environment. The outcomes of these interactions drive many soil processes, particularly the decomposition of organic matter and the cycling of important plant nutrient elements. Topics that will be covered in this course include the structure and function of the soil sub-system, soil as a habitat for microorganisms, the biology, ecology and diversity of soil organisms, physiological, biochemical and molecular methods for measuring microbial abundance, activity and diversity in soil, and the role of soil microbes in organic matter decomposition and nutrient cycling. Readings include the textbook – Gentry et al. (2021) - and current research articles that will introduce students to ecological concepts and recent research methods in soil ecology. The optional laboratory section will focus on the effects of soil management on soil microbial communities using traditional and molecular methods for assessing the abundance, activity and diversity of soil organisms.#
&PLSCI 4825 | Museum and Park Interpretation&
#This class is for students who are interested in receiving an overview of interpretive planning. Interpretation is a mission-based communication process that forges emotional and intellectual connections between the interests of the audience and meanings inherent in the resource. This theory-driven process can be applied to a wide variety of opportunities to communicate to the public. Professionals who apply this communication process develop interpretive materials for museums, science centers, historic sites, zoos, aquaria, botanic gardens, national and state parks and other cultural attractions. In this course, students will collaborate with staff at Cornell Botanic Gardens to create interpretive media including but not limited to signage, exhibits, written material, or self-guided tours.#
&PLSCI 4900 | Reflection on Plant Sciences Experiential Learning&
#This course is designed to guide Plant Sciences majors in developing career goals around an out-of-classroom experience, in reflecting on that experience, and in recording that experience in the student's ePortfolio. To that end, students will draw up a set of learning outcomes for an internship, research opportunity or extension experience in the Plant Sciences, which must be approved by their faculty advisor before the experience begins. The student must then develop a critical reflection on that experience and upload it into one's ePortfolio.#
&PLSCI 4925 | Plant Sciences Senior Portfolio&
#The purpose of this course is to demonstrate that Plant Sciences students will have met all learning outcomes in the major prior to graduation by documenting relevant in-class and co-curricular activities. Preparatory work will include observing and learning from a diversity of presentations in preparation for taking PLSCI 4950. The basis for evaluation will be an ePortfolio that the student develops. It will contain the following elements: a personal profile, career goals and exploration, leadership experiences, a current resume, examples of how the learning outcomes for the major have been met, and summaries of 14 plant-related seminars that the student has attended while at Cornell. The evaluation and assignment of a grade will be made by the student's advisor using a common rubric across the major. Ideally, students will enroll in this course in the second-to-last semester so any deficiencies can be addressed prior to graduation.#
&PLSCI 4931 | It's Just Grass: Grassing the Urban Eden&
#This course explores the elements of sustainable design, establishment and management of sports, golf and lawn turf. Focus on practical aspects through field tours, hand-on activities and real-world case studies.#
&PLSCI 4950 | Senior Seminar in Plant Sciences&
#Students in the Plant Sciences major are required to complete a research experience, extramural internship or extension experience. It is critical for students to be able to explain their work to both scientific audiences and the general public. This course will walk students through the steps needed to produce a quality presentation for each audience, and students will practice giving these presentations. The presentations will be based on research or extension experiences the students have had as part of their Plant Sciences degree program. The course will culminate in an end-of-semester symposium in which students present their experience in a 10-minute talk.#
&PLSCI 4960 | Undergraduate Internship in Plant Sciences&
#In this experiential learning opportunity, students participate in an agricultural- or plant science-related work and learning experience equivalent to a minimum of six weeks of full-time effort.#
&PLSCI 4970 | Individual Study in Plant Sciences&
#An opportunity for undergraduate individual study of a special topic in plant sciences under the direction of a faculty member.#
&PLSCI 4975 | Undergraduate Peer Mentoring and Leadership Development in SIPS&
#Being a club officer or a peer mentor is an opportunity to learn about leadership and collaboration, as well as communication and the challenges of balancing diverse responsibilities. Preparation in this arena can serve a student for life, from learning how to engage in the workplace to being involved in community organizations and learning responsibilities ranging from conflict management to serving as a fiscal steward. Opportunities for leadership development and growth will vary; in general, they include learning how to: foster inclusiveness and a healthy, positive social atmosphere among members and peers; respond to student concerns; communicate and collaborate effectively with staff, faculty advisors, and other faculty, staff, administrators and students; reflect on and articulate experiences with other mentors or club officers throughout the semester; and maintain the reputation, continuity and history of a Cornell organization.#
&PLSCI 4980 | Undergraduate Teaching Experience in Plant Sciences&
#Designed to give qualified undergraduate students teaching experience through actual involvement in planning and teaching plant sciences courses under the supervision of SIPS faculty members. May include leading discussion sections; preparing, assisting in, or teaching laboratories; and tutoring.#
&PLSCI 4990 | Independent Undergraduate Research in Plant Science&
#Affords opportunities for students to carry out independent research under appropriate supervision. Each student is expected to review pertinent literature, prepare a project outline, conduct the research, and prepare a report.#
&PLSCI 5020 | Systems Epidemiology for Plant Pathology&
#Systems Epidemiology for Plant Pathology offers an expansion of plant pathology concepts into quantitative epidemiology and population biology. The course is taught as two inter-related seven-week modules. The epidemiology module explores the concepts of disease and crop loss and social, economic, and ecological consequences. Students will gain underpinning theory and hands-on experience with measuring disease, crop loss modeling, spatial and temporal attributes of epidemics. The population biology module focuses on biological processes that affect plant pathogen populations and communities in natural and agronomic settings, and how these processes affect disease development and control. These concepts include, but are not limited to, pathogen and virulence diversity, host-pathogen interaction at the population level, selection pressure, super-races, pathogen sexual vs. clonal reproduction, invasive species, quorum-sensing, etc. Although this course is organized into two modules, the over-arching theme of a systems approach will intertwine through all material.#
&PLSCI 5030 | Hemp Breeding and Genetics&
#This course will cover the foundations of plant genetics and plant breeding with a focus on the breeding of hemp for different market classes. topics for discussion will include; reproductive mechanisms, germplasm diversity, genomics of cannabinoid production, and genetic control of flowering. The class will include a mixture of lecture format and small group discussions of current literature.#
&PLSCI 5045 | Chemistry and Pharmacology of Cannabis&
#Cannabis sativa is a psychoactive plant used for medical or recreational purposes. Its primary psychoactive component, THC, is one of the >400 known compounds, including at least 65 cannabinoids. CBD, the other major compound, is currently studied for its potential in a variety of medical disorders (e.g., treatment of anxiety, seizure, loss of appetite, chronic pain, etc.). In this course, we will learn past and current uses of cannabis in different cultures. We will become familiar with the chemistry, pharmacology, toxicology, mode of action and safety of cannabis. Furthermore, we will review the biosynthesis and distribution of plant secondary metabolites, the techniques used in their isolation and structure elucidation, the value of biological assays, and the steps involved in drug production and approval.#
&PLSCI 5060 | Hemp Processing&
#This course covers the principles and practices used to process industrial hemp into a diverse array of food, extract and fiber products. Lectures will describe key products and production practices, highlighting how hemp products compare to those produced from other materials. Discussion sections will review scientific studies relevant to industrial hemp products and processing. Lab sections will give student hands-on experience using a broad array of processing equipment. To facility student access to the broadest array of processing equipment, many lab meetings will involve visits to nearby commercial production facilities.#
&PLSCI 5140 | Global Cropping Systems and Sustainable Development&
#With accelerating demands for food, feed, and fiber along with increasing recognition of the importance of agricultural systems to ecosystem services and rural livelihoods, the requirements of agricultural systems are simultaneously intensifying and diversifying. This course introduces foundational concepts that explain the distribution, productivity, and ecological impacts of the world's major cropping systems from an interdisciplinary perspective, including soils, climate and water, markets, policies, and institutions. Through systems thinking and process-based agronomy, an emphasis is placed on assessing solutions for resolving core challenges to the sustainable development goals in the context of global change. Students gain insights into sustainable intensification technologies as well as the social process that support innovation. Evidence synthesis through a geographically-anchored case study and active participation in class discussions are required.#
&PLSCI 5200 | Geographic Information Systems (GIS): Concepts and Application&
#This course introduces the fundamental principles and concepts necessary to carry out meaningful and appropriate geospatial applications using geographic information science (GIS), with a particular emphasis on characterizing, assessing, and understanding agronomic and environmental systems. The course covers key issues in GIS such as geographic coordinate systems, map projections, spatial analysis, use of remotely sensed data, visualization of spatial data, spatial statistics, and spatial modeling. Laboratory exercises include database query, database acquisition, spatial analysis and visualization to address issues in hydrology, ecology, agriculture, and sustainability. Students will gain proficiency with the leading open-source GIS platform, QGIS, and familiarity with commercial GIS software such as ArcGIS Pro.#
&PLSCI 5420 | Plant Physiology, Lectures&
#Integrated and interdisciplinary study of the processes that contribute to the growth, competition, and reproduction of plants. Topics include, but are not limited to, plant-water relations, membrane properties and processes, photosynthesis, plant respiration, mineral and organic nutrition, stress physiology, control of growth and development, and responses to the environment. Emphasis is on the relationship between structure and function from the molecular to the whole-plant level.#
&PLSCI 5430 | Molecular Biology and Genetic Engineering of Plants&
#Introduction to current studies involving recombinant DNA technology and its application to the improvement of plants. Emphasizes genetic transformation methodology, gene expression systems, and strategies for increasing productivity.#
&PLSCI 5431 | Laboratory in Molecular Biology and Genetic Engineering of Plants&
#Companion to Molecular Biology and Genetic Engineering of Plants course with with laboratory activities that focus on the practice of plant biotechnology. Students construct transgenes using recombinant DNA methods, transfer genes to plants by a variety of approaches including tissue culture-based methods, assess the integration of transgenes in the host genome and analyze their expression by use of reporter gene assays and by preparing and analyzing nucleic acids. Students will also gain basic skills in bioinformatics.#
&PLSCI 5440 | Integrated Pest Management&
#Lectures integrate the principles of pest control, ecology, and economics in the management of pests across multiple systems. Labs consist of exercises to reinforce concepts presented in lecture and demonstrate pest monitoring techniques and the application of computer technology to management problems.#
&PLSCI 5500 | Master Composter Training and Extension Internship&
#Students will study the managed decomposition of organic matter. Through discussion and hands on activities, we will explore the basics of the composting process, nutrient cycling and recycling as well as methods used to teach these concepts to a wide variety of audiences. The main aim of this subject is for students to understand the underlying biology and chemistry of the composting process and the resulting environmental, health and economic benefits of recycling organic residuals in real world situations. Emphasis will be placed on the applied aspects of composting, empowering students to become leaders in the community on compost education. Students will also be expected to apply the lessons learned through volunteer work each week and participate in community events where composing education will occur.#
&PLSCI 5660 | Soil Ecology&
#Soil ecology is the study of soil organisms and their interactions with each other and with their environment. The outcomes of these interactions drive many soil processes, particularly the decomposition of organic matter and the cycling of important plant nutrient elements. Topics that will be covered in this course include the structure and function of the soil sub-system, soil as a habitat for microorganisms, the biology, ecology and diversity of soil organisms, physiological, biochemical and molecular methods for measuring microbial abundance, activity and diversity in soil, and the role of soil microbes in organic matter decomposition and
nutrient cycling. Readings include the textbook – Gentry et al. (2021) - and current research articles that will introduce students to ecological concepts and recent research methods in soil ecology. The optional laboratory section will focus on the effects of soil management on soil microbial communities using traditional and molecular methods for assessing the abundance, activity and diversity of soil organisms.#
&PLSCI 5700 | Symbioses: Evolution and Ecology&
#Symbiosis, the living together of unlike organisms, encompasses a spectrum of interactions ranging from mutually beneficial to reciprocally detrimental. We will examine a selection of ecologically important symbioses, including interactions of bacteria and fungi with plants, protists, invertebrates, and vertebrates, focusing on their ecological, physiological and molecular mechanisms. We will consider the evolutionary origins, and explore conditions required for the establishment and maintenance of these associations. We will discuss the role of symbioses in the assembly of ecological communities and agriculture. Lastly, we will examine the impact of global change on symbioses.#
&PLSCI 5825 | Museum and Park Interpretation&
#This class is for students who are interested in receiving an overview of interpretive planning. Interpretation is a mission-based communication process that forges emotional and intellectual connections between the interests of the audience and meanings inherent in the resource. This theory-driven process can be applied to a wide variety of opportunities to communicate to the public. Professionals who apply this communication process develop interpretive materials for museums, science centers, historic sites, zoos, aquaria, botanic gardens, national and state parks and other cultural attractions. In this course, students will collaborate with staff at Cornell Botanic Gardens to create interpretive media including but not limited to signage, exhibits, written material, or self-guided tours.#
&PLSCI 5850 | Public Garden Management&
#Explores the history of public gardens, types of contemporary public gardens, and the operation of public gardens including botanical gardens and arboreta. Includes separate units on administration and business management of gardens, collections curatorship, collections design, educational programs, research, and management of landscapes and natural areas.#
&PLSCI 5940 | Skills for Public Engagement&
#Community engagement provides exciting opportunitiesfor students to learn about the needs of our communities. This course will expose students to the history and importance of public engagement, at Cornell and beyond, and provide practical, hands-on instruction of skills used in public engagement. These skills include public speaking, writing, branding, as well as training in video production and social media. The course will explore strategies for engaging with different community partners including growers, K-12 students and teachers, international communities, and governmental/political/NGO engagement, as well as generational differences and diversity challenges faced within different communities. Colleagues from Cornell Cooperative Extension and across the University with expertise in specific engagement areas will be involved in the course.#
&PLSCI 6000 | Concepts and Techniques in Computational Biology&
#This course is geared towards graduate students and advanced biology undergraduates seeking a better understanding of computational biology. Lectures will be a combination of presentations, paper discussions and hands-on sessions. Labs and paper discussions will have a significant component of plant science, but students from non-plant fields are also encouraged to register. Students will learn to work in a Unix environment, code using Python/R, and deploy tools for genome assembly, RNA-seq data analysis, local and global sequence alignment, protein domain searching using Hidden Markov Models, phylogenetic reconstruction, metabolomic analysis, and machine learning. Lectures will cover the algorithmic concepts underlying popular tools. The students will also learn practical aspects of implementing these tools in their own research using facilities available at Cornell.#
&PLSCI 6010 | Molecular Biology of Plant-Microbe Interactions&
#The co-evolutionary molecular battle between microbial pathogens and plants has game-like properties whose rules are emerging from recent genomic, biochemical, and cell biological advances. This course explores the molecular pieces and collective behaviors of pathogen virulence and plant immune systems, similarities between interaction mechanisms in plant and animal pathosystems, and the application of this knowledge to sustainable agriculture. The course emphasizes the development of professional skills, such as the management of scientific literature, creative design and critical evaluation of research, and communication of complex scientific concepts to diverse audiences.#
&PLSCI 6040 | Crop Diversity and Genetic Resources&
#Crop genetic diversity is critical for the sustainability, productivity, and resilience of agriculture and food systems. Crop diversity can be measured from the cellular to the landscape scale. Crop diversity relates not only to genetics, ecology, and agricultural management, but also policy, economics, ethics, and culture. This class explores these complex interactions and discusses tools used to evaluate, manage, and conserve crop diversity.#
&PLSCI 6090 | Perennial Crop Breeding Seminar&
#Perennial crops are critical components of sustainable farming systems, and have many environmental benefits including increased biodiversity, water quality, soil conservation, carbon sequestration, productivity, and resilience. Due to the biology of these species, plant breeders seeking to develop perennial crop cultivars face a unique set of challenges and opportunities. This course examines a wide range of perennial crop breeding programs and discusses tools available to breeders, decision-making in perennial crop breeding programs, and opportunities for plant breeding to enhance sustainability and perenniality in cropping systems.#
&PLSCI 6095 | Practicum in Plant Breeding&
#In-depth, practical exposure to applied crop breeding. Students participate in the department's maize, small grains, potato, pepper, squash, forage, tomato, and onion breeding programs to gain hands-on experience in the planning and implementation of crossing, planting, harvesting, selecting, and evaluating disease and quality traits.#
&PLSCI 6140 | Weed Ecology and Management&
#Examines plant ecological principles governing weed population dynamics and weed-crop competitive interactions in crop and non-crop ecosystems. Development of sustainable weed management strategies.#
&PLSCI 6170 | Advanced Analytical Methods for Plant Systems&
#Principles and practical applications of selected laboratory methods in the plant and environmental sciences. Emphasizes enhancement of laboratory technique and problem-solving skills. Discusses suitability of various procedures for measuring important plant and soil components. Analytical techniques are chosen from elemental analysis by combustion or flow analysis, gas chromatography, HPLC, electrophoresis, electrochemical assays, enzyme assays, bioassays, and mass spectrometry.#
&PLSCI 6380 | Filamentous Fungal Genetics and Genomics&
#Fungi play a vital role in our ecosystem and are responsible for devastating crop infestations that threaten global food supplies and diseases that result in the death of hundreds of thousands of individuals each year. This course explores fungal biology through the lens of molecular genetics and genomics, including epigenetics, genome defense mechanisms, metabolism, and signaling pathways. We will cover the use of genetic tools in fungi ranging from classical genetics to CRISPR to high-throughput sequencing. This course will also teach skills necessary to analyze genetic and genomic data using Python and publicly available sequencing analysis software. No prior coding experience is necessary. The course will emphasize the development of professional skills, such as critically reading and reviewing scientific literature, experimental design, scientific communication, and data analysis.#
&PLSCI 6420 | Mineral Nutrition: From Plants to Humans&
#Plants provide almost all essential minerals for humans and therefore plants are critical components of the human diet. Plant biologists address challenges of meeting the nutritional needs of the increasing world's population by studying plants' ability to uptake, translocate and accumulate mineral nutrients in edible tissues. By integrating basic plant biology with molecular breeding and genomics approaches, fundamental discoveries are utilized to have the greatest impact on solving biofortification of plant-based foods. This team-taught course explores the mechanisms of acquisition of mineral nutrients from the soil, translocation and accumulation in plant tissues, strategies to prevent mineral element deficiencies while avoiding their overload, and toxicity of noxious metals. Selected lectures focus on the relation between the nutrient status of plants and human nutrition and health. Graduate students will have assignments for in-depth learning of each topic. Examination questions will differ for graduate students to evaluate assigned material. Graduate students will write a paper for one of the topics and present it in class.#
&PLSCI 6500 | Fruit Crop Physiology&
#We will be studying the physiology of perennial fruit crop production with an emphasis on the biochemical and genetic mechanisms by which fruit crops function and interact with the environment. The class focuses on temperate fruit trees, grapevines, and small-fruits that are commercially grown in the Northeastern U.S., but other species will be highlighted on occasion. Topics include: flower development, pollination and fertilization, cold hardiness, fruit set and growth, plant growth regulators, carbon acquisition and partitioning, soil-root interactions, mineral nutrition, and water transport. Additionally, we will highlight critical challenges to fruit crop production, such as climate change and soil degradation. Course readings will largely come from journal articles. Students will lead and participate in discussions, write a review article, and learn how to evaluate scientific journal articles.#
&PLSCI 6550 | Postharvest Biology of Horticultural Crops&
#Study of the biological processes controlling physical and chemical changes in harvested yet living horticultural crops or their parts. Discusses the theoretical principles and fundamental processes underlying these changes. Also covers strategies and practical handling requirements/conditions for storage, transportation, and quality monitoring of harvested horticultural crops.#
&PLSCI 6560 | Topics in Plant Evolution&
#Series of selected topics to provide a background in plant evolution, paleobotanical literature, and evolutionary theory. Among the topics discussed are: the origin of a terrestrial flora, the evolution of the seed plants, and the origin and adaptive radiation of the angiosperms.#
&PLSCI 6610 | Diagnostic Lab Experience&
#For graduate students and advanced undergraduates with a special interest in diagnosing plant diseases. Students work in the Diagnostic Laboratory (section of Plant Pathology and Plant-Microbe Biology) under supervision of the diagnostician.#
&PLSCI 6630 | Pedology&
#Covers weathering, reactions, and processes of soil genesis; principles of soil classification and the rationale and use of soil taxonomy; development and significance of major groups of soils of the world.#
&PLSCI 6820 | Graduate Student Research Updates&
#Weekly graduate student seminar series. Guests with an interest in plant pathology research are welcome to attend. Classes meet simultaneously in Geneva and Ithaca and are linked by teleconference.#
&PLSCI 6841 | Plant Form and Function: Anatomy, Cell Biology, and Development&
#This course is broken into three sections focusing on plant anatomy, cell biology, and development. In each section, we will discuss our current understanding of the key concepts, talk about some of the remaining open questions, and describe the techniques used in research to address these questions. Topics covered will include: cell versus organismic theory, meristems, organs, anatomical evolution, the cytoskeleton, cell wall, cell growth, cell division, advanced microscopy, subcellular trafficking, cell differentiation, pattern formation, intercellular signaling, and plant hormones.#
&PLSCI 6880 | Genetic Engineering of Food Crops: Myths, Truths and Detection&
#Genetically modified (GM) crops have been a hot topic with controversy. One of the major concerns is on the GM crops' safety when served as our food or food ingredients. The objective of this one-credit course is to discuss the principles and nature of crop genetic engineering vs. conventional plant breeding, and to show case studies of genetically engineered food crops with emphases on how they are generated, how the nutritional values are improved, and how to detect or examine if one's food may be genetically engineered or may contain GM crop-derived ingredients. This is a middle-level course that emphasizes the science-based principles and practices. An understanding of the basic biological processes involved in GM crops-related food will help students to rationally deal with GMO food and related issues.#
&PLSCI 6900 | Graduate Individual Study&
#Individual study for graduate students in the School of Integrative Plant Science under the direction of a faculty member.#
&PLSCI 7000 | School of Integrative Plant Science Seminars&
#Weekly seminars on selected topics in plant biology, plant breeding and genetics, plant pathology and plant-microbe biology,  horticulture, and soil and crop science, as presented by faculty, graduate students and guest speakers. Students will have opportunities to be exposed to advances in plant science disciplines, learn how scientific data are collected, analyzed and presented, network with speakers, and engage in dialog about research, extension and teaching topics.#
&PLSCI 7160 | Perspectives in Plant Breeding Strategies&
#Emphasizes critical discussion and evaluation of selected benchmark papers and current literature. Reviews and discusses conventional and molecular selection techniques and breeding objectives, methods, and strategies for both self- and cross-pollinated crops. Requires extensive outside reading. Grades are based on four papers demonstrating creative thinking and analysis of plant breeding concepts.#
&PLSCI 7170 | Quantitative Genetics for Analysis and Improvement of Complex Traits&
#This course will provide students with a solid foundation in quantitative genetics theory, as applied to the field of plant and animal breeding, introduce students to modern-day modeling approaches, simulation tools and applications of genomic selection. While the methodologies of plant and animal breeding are distinct in many ways, the core principles are the same, and this course will cover topics in a way that is inclusive of animal breeding applications.#
&PLSCI 7410 | Problems in Plant Biology&
#Introduction to the research literature in plant biology through weekly problem sets and discussions.#
&PLSCI 7440 | Graduate Research in Plant Biology&
#After the first year, students present one seminar per year on their thesis research and then meet with their thesis committee members for evaluation. First-year students only attend the seminar series; they do not present. Second-year students give a 25-minute seminar, while students in their third and higher years present a 50-minute seminar.#
&PLSCI 7450 | Current Papers in Plant Biology&
#Students in this class read and discuss recently published papers in plant molecular biology. A faculty member from the Plant Biology Section in the School of Integrative Plant Science will assign the reading material and facilitate student discussions. To enable in-depth review and discussion, the literature reading in each semester will have a common theme, which will generally be based on the research interests and expertise of the faculty mentor.#
&PLSCI 7980 | Graduate Teaching Experience in Plant Sciences&
#Designed to give graduate students teaching experience through involvement in planning and teaching courses under the supervision of SIPS faculty members. May include leading discussion sections; preparing, assisting in, or teaching lectures and laboratories; and tutoring.#
&PLSCI 8900 | Master of Science Thesis Research&
#Thesis research for Master of Science degree candidates in the School of Integrative Plant Science.#
&PLSCI 9900 | PhD Dissertation Research&
#Dissertation research for PhD candidates in the School of Integrative Plant Science.#


$PMA | Performing and Media Arts$
&PMA 1157 | FWS: Power and Horror: An Introduction to Critical Theory Through Horror Media&
#No description available.#
&PMA 1168 | FWS: Your Fave is Problematic: Media, Fandom, and Race&
#Do you enjoy watching video essays about your problematic faves on YouTube or TikTok and want to try your hand at making one of your own? Essays offering critical analysis of media objects and fandoms are an increasingly popular form of user-generated content and information dissemination. This Fisrt-Year Writing Seminar will give students a chance to dip their toes into discourse surrounding media and fandom as it relates to race. Students will write on the topic of race while engaging readings from the fields of Fandom, Performance, and Media Studies. The ultimate goal of this course is to provide students with tools to effectively communicate critical analysis using their favorite media objects and/or fandoms using clear, concise, accessible writing.#
&PMA 1182 | FWS: Speaking Bodies, Dancing Knowledge in the Caribbean&
#This course examines the pasts, presents, and futures of dance in the Caribbean. From nightclub performances to sacred rituals, we will consider how factors such as discrimination, tourism, migration, and globalization have impacted various dance forms and the ways in which they are staged, practiced, or experienced today. We will watch documentary films, stage performances, and music videos that feature influential artists such as Katherine Dunham, Alicia Alonso, Celia Cruz, Ivy Queen, Romeo Santos, and Bad Bunny. We will also read critical dance studies articles to help us develop informed written reflections. Students will write five formal essays discussing different dance styles and issues related to migration, tourism, globalization, and race/gender/class relations in the Caribbean, and in preparation, submit topic proposals, drafts, and peer-review exercises.#
&PMA 1410 | Media Production Laboratory&
#The Media Production Lab course is a series of self-contained lecture/workshops on various topics in the production of film and video on-set and on-location. The workshops will be hands on experience with cameras, lighting and sound equipment, exploring the technique of cinematography as well as, lighting, sound, and grip techniques for the studio and in the field. We will cover specific areas such as dollies and rigging, location sound, and production protocol.  Open to all skill levels.#
&PMA 1610 | Production Technology Laboratory&
#This technology lab will provide students with a foundation of the production process through experiential learning of scenographic practices. Students will learn about the technical production processes as they pertain too: scenery fabrication and installation, properties fabrication, costume fabrication, and lighting installation (primarily lighting for live performance).#
&PMA 1611 | Rehearsal and Performance&
#Students participating in a PMA creative project led by a faculty member or PMA Guest Artist can earn PMA 1611 credit.#
&PMA 1641 | Introduction to Storytelling&
#The objective of this course is to introduce students to a core topic that unites the tracks between performing and media studies: story. Throughout the semester students will explore the structures of film, television, and new media through the lens of storytelling. We will also examine how each of these mediums function at both the level of the individual consumer as well as the level of global society.#
&PMA 2000 | Media Studies Minor Colloquium&
#The Colloquium provides opportunities for exchange, reflection, discussion of relevant concepts, and extended engagement with the media objects made in a variety of Making Media courses.#
&PMA 2220 | Dance Technique II/Modern&
#Introductory modern technique intended for students with some dance training. Material covered includes specific spinal and center work with attention to rhythm, design, and movement expression.#
&PMA 2300 | Dance Composition&
#Students compose and present short studies that are discussed and reworked. Problems are defined and explored through class improvisations. Informal showing at end of semester. Includes informal showing of work. Weekly assignments in basic elements of choreography.#
&PMA 2301 | Screendance:History & Practice&
#Choreography and cinematography are kindred spirits. This class explores their evolving relationship within the interdisciplinary realm of screendance. From Eadweard Muybridge's pioneering photographic studies of motion to the iconic dance films of Hollywood's golden age in the 1930s, and from the avant-garde works of Maya Deren to the incorporation of dance in commercials and Instagram Reels, we will trace the trajectory of screendance. We will examine various aesthetic approaches to the form. Through these explorations, we aim to understand the process and significance of creating dances through the medium of film.#
&PMA 2460 | Japanese Pop Culture&
#Japanese pop culture—anime, manga, video games, music and more—has been a major phenomenon with massive worldwide popularity for the last three decades. In this course, we will explore a wide range of Japanese pop cultural forms, exploring the interactions between different media, Japanese pop culture as global pop culture, and a variety of modes of analyzing visual and audio materials. We will also see how pop cultural works themselves, in their content and form, engage with questions of gender, technology, fandom, nation, and the environment. No prior knowledge of Japanese language, culture, or history required. All readings and screenings will be available in English or with English subtitles.#
&PMA 2490 | Jewish Films and Filmmakers: Hollywood and Beyond&
#What does it mean to call a film is "Jewish"? Does it have to represent Jewish life? Does it have to feature characters identifiable as Jews? If artists who identify as Jews—actors, directors, screenwriters, composers—play significant roles in a film's production does that make it Jewish? Our primary point of entry into these questions will be Hollywood, from the industry's early silent films, through the period generally considered classical, down to the present day. We will also study films produced overseas, in countries that may include Israel, Egypt, France, Italy, and Germany. Our discussions will be enriched by contextual material drawn from film studies, cultural studies, Jewish studies, American studies, and other related fields. Students will be expected to view a significant number of films outside of class—an average of one per week—and engage with them through writing and in-class discussion. The directors, screenwriters, composers, and actors whose work we will study may include: Charlie Chaplin, Irving Berlin, Al Jolson, Fanny Brice, Billy Wilder, Barbra Streisand, Woody Allen, Mel Brooks, Aviva Kempner, Joan Micklin Silver, the Marx Brothers, and the Coen Brothers.#
&PMA 2610 | Production Crew Laboratory&
#Learn what it means to run a live show. Participate as part of a team to ensure all the elements work together and on time. Learn the intricacies of collaborating with a production group to create a unified artistic vision. Program lighting, sound, or video boards, or participate as a dresser, stage crew member, or assistant stage manager.#
&PMA 2611 | Stage Management Laboratory&
#This lab will give students practical experience as an assistant stage manager in the organization and management of a theatrical or mediated production; in rehearsals, in technical rehearsals as the scenographic elements are implemented, and in performance or filming for a fully supported department production under the supervision of the staff stage manager.  The course can only be applied to a fully supported department production with a full rehearsal period and performance.#
&PMA 2640 | Theatrical Makeup Studio&
#This course introduces students to basic two-dimensional techniques of makeup design and application for the stage including corrective, old age, youth, likeness, cross gender, and animal makeups. The process of stylizing imagery in makeup design is explored. Students will also work with false facial hair.#
&PMA 2652 | Ancient Greek Drama&
#This course introduces students to ancient Greek drama, with a particular focus on the genre of tragedy and its relation to the cultural, political, and performance context of Athens in the 5th century BC. Students will read plays by Aeschylus, Sophocles, and Euripides in English translation and explore how they address key themes such as gender, racialization, slavery, war, mourning, trauma, empathy, and justice. Students will also study how contemporary artists, writers, and communities have adapted and restaged Greek drama, transforming and animating these ancient scripts across various media (theater, film, literature, etc.) to speak to complex and urgent social issues today (e.g., state/institutional violence; sexual violence; racism and xenophobia; queer bodies and desires; mental health; disability and caregiving).#
&PMA 2701 | Media Arts, Performance, and Sound: Intersections&
#This interdisciplinary course offers an introduction to the methods employed in media arts, sound and performance. It provides a comprehensive exploration of the strategies and historical context of these disciplines. Students will engage in an interdisciplinary studio setting with a specific focus on one of these areas. Through hands-on experience, they will delve into contemporary artistic practices, honing their technical skills to develop and realize their creative projects. Potential topics covered include video and animation, digital image production, sound art, performance art, and movement#
&PMA 2703 | Thinking Media&
#For description, see GERST 2703.#
&PMA 2800 | Introduction to Acting&
#An introduction to the actor's technique and performance skills, exploring the elements necessary to begin training as an actor, i.e., observation, concentration, and imagination. Focus is on physical and vocal exercises, improvisation, and text and character. There is required play reading, play attendance, and some scene study.#
&PMA 3000 | Independent Study&
#Independent study allows students the opportunity to pursue special interests not treated in regularly scheduled courses. A faculty member, who becomes the student's instructor for the course, must approve the student's program of study and agree to provide continuing supervision of the work.#
&PMA 3104 | Sound, Music, Public Space&
#What do we learn when we turn an ear to the commons? Who determines what sounds are desirable or undesirable in a community and what are the stakes of that negotiation when it comes to public space? This seminar will study the ways that individuals and communities use sound and music to self-identify, claim space, and shape their public spaces. We will engage the work of artists who have called our attention to the social aspects of listening. We will listen to public art projects, films, concerts, field recordings, installations, informal sonic practices, and political interventions as we read about the contested control of public space.#
&PMA 3210 | Classical Dance Technique&
#Classical Dance Technique is a studio course for the practice and performance of classical concert dance techniques, principles, and elements, including but not limited to Cecchetti and Vaganova ballet methods.#
&PMA 3215 | Performance and Immigration:Staging the Migrant, Alien, and Refugee in and outside the US&
#In this course, we interrogate how immigration debates are staged and experiences of belonging are redefined through performance. The categories of "undocumented," "illegal," "displaced," and "exile" collide on international and national stages when governmental bodies decide who gets to be a migrant and under what terms. We assess how bodies marked culturally and legally as "aliens" use performance to navigate complex migration laws and dangerous social terrains that appear to be shifting and solidifying at the same time. We consider performances on stage, as well as performance in a broader understanding. We examine visual, linguistic, and performative representations of migrant experiences. We analyze and write about performances that deal with issues of migration beyond economic and security models.#
&PMA 3350 | Technology and the Moving Body I&
#Formally titled "technosomakinesics," this class works to expand the specific aesthetics related to dance as embodied performance. Included in the process is the analysis of built environments that both inspire and are designed to be inhabited by these disciplines. This course explores the resulting neoperformance forms being created within the range of digital media processing; such as gallery installations, multimedia dance-theatre, personal interactive media (games and digital art) and web projects. Computer-imaging and sound-production programs are examined and used in the class work (human form-animation software, vocal recording and digital editing, digital-imaging tools. The new context of digital performance raises questions concerning the use of traditional lighting, set, costume, and sound-design techniques that are examined as they are repositioned by digital-translation tools with the goal of creating experimental and/or conceptual multimedia performance and/or installation work. Theoretical texts on dance and theatrical performance, film studies, the dynamic social body, architecture, and digital technology are also used to support conceptual creative work.#
&PMA 3420 | Asian Americans and Popular Culture&
#This course examines both mainstream representations of and independent media made by, for, and about Asians and Asian Americans throughout U.S. cultural history. In this course, we will analyze popular cultural genres & forms such as: documentary & narrative films, musical theatre & live performance revues, television, zines & blogs, YouTube/online performances, karaoke & cover performances, stand-up comedy, and popular music. Employing theories of cultural studies, media studies, and performance studies, we will discuss the cultural, discursive, and political impact of these various popular cultural forms and representations from the turn of the 20th century to the present.#
&PMA 3421 | Literary Theory on the Edge&
#This course examines a range of exciting and provocative 20th- and 21st- century theoretical paradigms for thinking about literature, language and culture. These approaches provide differing, though often overlapping, entryways into theoretical analysis, including structuralism and post-structuralism, translation studies, Black studies, Afro-Diasporic Studies, postcolonial and decolonial studies, performance studies, media theory and cinema/media studies, the digital humanities, psychoanalysis and trauma theory, gender studies and queer studies, studies of the Anthropocene/environmental studies, and animal studies. Occasional invited guests, lectures and class discussions will provide students with a facility for close textual analysis, a knowledge of major currents of thought in the humanities, and an appreciation for the uniqueness and complexity of language and media.#
&PMA 3425 | Deaf Art, Film and Theatre&
#This course will explore approaches to the Deaf experience taken by Deaf artists from the 1900s to the present. Analysis of chosen works of Deaf art, film and theater will illuminate the expression of the Deaf narrative through symbolism, themes, and genres. We will examine the interaction of these works in multiple social, historical, cultural and political contexts and how they have contributed to the construction of Deaf culture and identity. This course will be taught in advanced ASL, with emphasis on the production and comprehension of academic ASL.#
&PMA 3504 | Writing the Pilot&
#In this course, students will create and write their own half-hour or hour long pilots. They will be expected to build on a premise and have an episodic engine that sustains for the full length of an entire season. No limited series will be written in this course.#
&PMA 3550 | Global Cinema and Media&
#Global Cinema and Media offers a survey of international film and media history from the late nineteenth century to today. Through a focus on key films and significant epochs, the course traces the evolution of form, style and genre, the medium's changing technologies and business models, as well as film and media's relation to broader cultural, social and political contexts. Screenings of narrative, documentary and experimental films and video will be accompanied by readings in film and media theory and history.#
&PMA 3570 | Film and Video Production I&
#An introduction to filmmaking, students will learn to create compelling characters, as well as develop strong storytelling skills through basic character and story development and breakdown, cinematography, lighting, sound and editing. Over the course of the semester, students will deconstruct and analyze visual culture in an effort to learn effective techniques in visual storytelling. Students will write, shoot and edit a series of dramatic narrative exercises, participating in the preproduction to post production processes. Students will collaborate and rotate through various roles. The course will culminate with the screening of the various course projects, in a public, open-campus event at the end of the semester.#
&PMA 3632 | Production Design for Film, Television and Contemporary and Digital Media Studio I&
#The production designer is responsible for creating, controlling, and managing 'the look' of narrative films, television & contemporary and digital media from page to screen. This hands-on, project-based course explores the processes of production design, art direction, and lighting direction as related to design for these arenas. From initial Production Design sketches, Storyboards, and 'Feel-Boards' to accommodating desired cinematographic angles and looks when designing a studio set, a designer needs to shape an entire visual world while keeping in mind the story as a whole. The goal of this course is to provide an initial understanding of the Production Design process in practice through studio work and instruction.#
&PMA 3640 | Scenic Design Studio&
#No description available.#
&PMA 3660 | Costume Design Studio I&
#Design of costumes for theatre and film, concentrating on script and character analysis, period research, design elements, figure drawing and rendering skills, and an understanding of production style.#
&PMA 3680 | Sound Design&
#Covering the basics of digital audio, bioacoustics, psychoacoustics and sound design, as they apply to theatre, film and music production. Students create soundscapes for text and moving image using ProTools software.#
&PMA 3684 | Critical Listening Strategies: Lessons From Sound Art&
#No description available.#
&PMA 3758 | American Theatre on Stage and Screen II (1960-Present)&
#How has theatre shaped our notion of America and Americans in the second half of the 20th century and beyond?  What role has politics played in the theatre?  How has performance been used to examine concepts of identity, community, and nationality?  And how and why have certain plays in this era been translated to the screen? In this course we will examine major trends in the American theatre from 1960 to the present.  We will focus on theatre that responds directly to moments of social turmoil, including: the Vietnam and Iraq Wars, the Civil Rights and Black Lives Matter Movements, Women's and Gender Equality Movements, and the AIDS epidemic. We will also explore the tensions between Broadway and alternative theatre production.#
&PMA 3770 | Shakespeare: The Late Plays&
#The course focuses on Shakespeare's middle to late plays, from the "problem comedies," through the great tragedies and romances.  While we will pay particular attention to questions of dramatic form (genre) and historical context (including ways in which the plays themselves call context into question), the primary concentration will be on careful close readings of the language of the play-texts, in relation to critical questions of subjectivity, power, and art. On the way, we will encounter problems of sexuality, identity, emotion, the body, family, violence, politics, God, the nation, nature and money (not necessarily in that order).#
&PMA 3800 | Acting II&
#Practical exploration of the actor's craft through exercises in physical and psychological action, improvisation and scene study.#
&PMA 3805 | Playwriting I&
#In this introductory class, students will study elements of successful dramatic writing: strong structure, effective dialogue, and imaginative theatricality. Students will craft and revise short plays, in addition to drafting several short assignments and one analytical paper. Readings include full-length and 10-minute plays. Through giving and receiving constructive feedback, each writer will aim to take their work to new levels of complexity, theatricality, and meaning.#
&PMA 4401 | Advanced Documentary Production&
#This production seminar is for students with basic documentary filmmaking skills who want to work with previously collected footage and/or are in production on a project in or around Ithaca. Over the course of the semester, students complete a documentary film based on an immersive engagement with their selected subject matter. Alongside watching and discussing relevant texts and films, students will complete exercises to help them focus their projects, build a cohesive narrative, learn script writing, brainstorm scene ideas, overcome narrative challenges, discover their aesthetic, and develop a film circulation plan. Students will regularly present new footage and scenes and explain their work in terms their goals for the final project. The course culminates in a public screening of students' independent video projects.#
&PMA 4403 | Black Cult Media&
#When people (academics usually) write about cult movies they are typically talking about films like Rocky Horror Picture Show or Casablanca or The Big Lebowski. Rarely, if ever, are Coming to America or The Color Purple or Friday-films with predominantly Black casts and seemingly marketed toward Black audiences-also considered within the canon of cult. This kind of exclusion begs the central question of the course: What is Black Cult Media?#
&PMA 4450 | Rural Humanities Seminar&
#The Rural Humanities seminar will introduce students to the public humanities as both a disciplinary inquiry and a set of practices grounded in public and community engagement. It is intended to train cohorts of graduate students and advanced undergraduates in the various theories, methods, and practices of public humanities, to think collectively with and beyond disciplinary interests, and to bring these discipline-defined research agendas to much wider communities by first focusing on local rural communities. Students will produce a collaborative project related to or working with a community partner.#
&PMA 4501 | Special Topics in Cinema and Media Theory&
#Radical transformations in our media landscape raise urgent questions for the field of cinema and media studies. This course focuses on a topic drawn from current scholarly research. They may include: theorizing the global, narrative and new media, queer/trans media paradigms, media and public life, media and migration, and critical race and media studies. Weekly class meetings will combine discussion and short screenings; there may be additional screenings outside of class.#
&PMA 4532 | Advanced Screenwriting&
#Focuses on the structure and style of the original web-series and long-form short screenplay, and incorporates extensive peer feedback, workshop, and revision. Students will produce and revise an original mid-length short film and/or show pilot, in addition to crafting a log-line, treatment, and pitch for their film.​#
&PMA 4680 | Prison Theatre and the Possibilities of Transformation&
#To explore cultural aspects of imprisonment through a focus on theatre produced by those incarcerated.  Does making theatre in prison seem to assist in transformation? Students create work with PPTG members in lab sessions, do narrative interviews, create annotated Internet data base.#
&PMA 4681 | Cages and Creativity: Arts in Incarceration&
#This course explores the increasing presence of all the arts in prisons throughout the country and examines the increasing scholarship surrounding arts programs and their efficacy for incarcerated persons. The course uses video's, archival material, reading material and in-person or Zoom interviews to investigate how and why art is taught in prisons. The course will also look at art produced by incarcerated artists as well as art by those who are still practicing after going home. And finally, the course will explore the increasing scholarship around the impact practicing the arts while incarcerated has on recidivism rates and preparation for re-entry.#
&PMA 4701 | Nightlife&
#This course explores nightlife as a temporality that fosters countercultural performances of the self and that serves as a site for the emergence of alternative kinship networks. Focusing on queer communities of color, course participants will be asked to interrogate the ways in which nightlife demonstrates the queer world-making potential that exists beyond the normative 9-5 capitalist model of production. Performances of the everyday, alongside films, texts, and performance art, will be analyzed through a performance studies methodological lens. Through close readings and sustained cultural analysis, students will acquire a critical understanding of the potentiality of spaces, places, and geographies codified as "after hours" in the development of subcultures, alternative sexualities, and emerging performance practices.#
&PMA 4950 | Honors Research Tutorial I&
#First of a two-semester sequence (the second is PMA 4951) for seniors engaged in an honors project. Honor guidelines and form.#
&PMA 4951 | Honors Research Tutorial II&
#Second of a two-semester sequence (the first is PMA 4950) for students engaged in an honors project.#
&PMA 5104 | Sound, Music, Public Space&
#What do we learn when we turn an ear to the commons? Who determines what sounds are desirable or undesirable in a community and what are the stakes of that negotiation when it comes to public space? This seminar will study the ways that individuals and communities use sound and music to self-identify, claim space, and shape their public spaces. We will engage the work of artists who have called our attention to the social aspects of listening. We will listen to public art projects, films, concerts, field recordings, installations, informal sonic practices, and political interventions as we read about the contested control of public space.#
&PMA 6400 | Thinking Media Studies&
#This required seminar for the new graduate minor in media studies considers media from a wide number of perspectives, ranging from the methods of cinema and television studies to those of music, information science, communication, science and technology studies, and beyond. Historical and theoretical approaches to media are intertwined with meta-critical reflections on media studies as an interdisciplinary field of inquiry. Close attention will be paid to media's role in shaping and being shaped by race, ethnicity, class, gender, sexuality, and other politically constructed categories of identity and sociality.#
&PMA 6421 | Literary Theory on the Edge&
#This course examines a range of exciting and provocative 20th- and 21st- century theoretical paradigms for thinking about literature, language and culture. These approaches provide differing, though often overlapping, entryways into theoretical analysis, including structuralism and post-structuralism, translation studies, Black studies, Afro-Diasporic Studies, postcolonial and decolonial studies, performance studies, media theory and cinema/media studies, the digital humanities, psychoanalysis and trauma theory, gender studies and queer studies, studies of the Anthropocene/environmental studies, and animal studies. Occasional invited guests, lectures and class discussions will provide students with a facility for close textual analysis, a knowledge of major currents of thought in the humanities, and an appreciation for the uniqueness and complexity of language and media.#
&PMA 6450 | Rural Humanities Seminar&
#The Rural Humanities seminar will introduce students to the public humanities as both a disciplinary inquiry and a set of practices grounded in public and community engagement. It is intended to train cohorts of graduate students and advanced undergraduates in the various theories, methods, and practices of public humanities, to think collectively with and beyond disciplinary interests, and to bring these discipline-defined research agendas to much wider communities by first focusing on local rural communities. Students will produce a collaborative project related to or working with a community partner.#
&PMA 6501 | Special Topics in Cinema and Media Theory&
#Radical transformations in our media landscape raise urgent questions for the field of cinema and media studies.  This course focuses on a topic drawn from current scholarly research.  They may include: theorizing the global, narrative and new media, queer/trans media paradigms, media and public life, media and migration, and critical race and media studies.  Weekly class meetings will combine discussion and short screenings; there may be additional screenings outside of class.#
&PMA 6680 | Prison Theatre and the Possibilities of Transformation&
#No description available.#
&PMA 6701 | Nightlife&
#This course explores nightlife as a temporality that fosters countercultural performances of the self and that serves as a site for the emergence of alternative kinship networks.  Focusing on queer communities of color, course participants will be asked to interrogate the ways in which nightlife demonstrates the queer world-making potential that exists beyond the normative 9-5 capitalist model of production. Performances of the everyday, alongside films, texts, and performance art, will be analyzed through a performance studies methodological lens.  Through close readings and sustained cultural analysis, students will acquire a critical understanding of the potentiality of spaces, places, and geographies codified as "after hours" in the development of subcultures, alternative sexualities, and emerging performance practices.#
&PMA 7000 | Independent Study for Graduate Students in Performing and Media Arts&
#Independent study in performing and media arts allows graduate students the opportunity to pursue special interests not treated in regularly scheduled courses. A faculty member, who becomes the student's instructor for the course, must approve the student's program of study and agree to provide continuing supervision of the work.#
&PMA 7100 | The Pedagogy of Performing and Media Arts&
#Provides graduate students in the field of Performing and Media Arts an opportunity to work directly with a faculty member to explore pedagogical theory and practice in undergraduate theatre classes in all areas of the curriculum.#
&PMA 7401 | Advanced Documentary Production&
#This production seminar is for students with basic documentary filmmaking skills who want to work with previously collected footage and/or are in production on a project in or around Ithaca. Over the course of the semester, students complete a documentary film based on an immersive engagement with their selected subject matter. Alongside watching and discussing relevant texts and films, students will complete exercises to help them focus their projects, build a cohesive narrative, learn script writing, brainstorm scene ideas, overcome narrative challenges, discover their aesthetic, and develop a film circulation plan. Students will regularly present new footage and scenes and explain their work in terms their goals for the final project. The course culminates in a public screening of students' independent video projects.#


$POLSH | Polish$
&POLSH 1132 | Elementary Polish II&
#In this course, students continue to work on their four language skills: listing, speaking, reading, and writing as well as cultural competence. We focus on practical communication. The instructor uses communicative language teaching (CLT) with an emphasis on structured input.#
&POLSH 2034 | Intermediate Polish II&
#In this course, students continue working on their ability to speak, write, read, and understand contemporary Polish.  Students will also enhance their intercultural competency.  The instructor uses communicative language teaching with emphasis on structured input.  Students use the textbook and workbook "Hurra!  Po polsku 2" supplemented by Polish-English chapter dictionaries.  This class covers chapters 11-20.  If a student is not sure of his or her language level, he or she can contact the Polish instructor, Ewa Bachminska, at eb583@cornell.edu.#


$PORT | Portuguese$
&PORT 1220 | Elementary Portuguese II&
#Second semester introduction to the Lusophone (Portuguese speaking) world.  Emphasis is given to the development of language skills (e.g., speaking, listening, reading, and writing), as well as the appreciation and awareness of Global Portuguese-speaking cultures, prompting students to make comparisons to their own culture.#
&PORT 2020 | Intermediate Portuguese for Spanish Speakers II&
#This is a course designed to intermediate students to enhance their oral and written communication skills in Portuguese while engaging a broad range of topics related to Afro-Luso-Brazilian culture. Along with the textbook, students will read a short-essay book, be exposed to a number of films and critically reflect and discuss the films and readings. Students will continue to build their knowledge on grammar and vocabulary as well as Global Portuguese culture and language diversity.#
&PORT 2800 | Perspectives on Brazil&
#This course provides an introduction and overview of Brazilian culture. It will study different periods of Brazilian history, through the analysis of films, literature, essays, visual arts, and music. Students will explore different definitions of Brazilian identity and "Brazilianness" focusing on key topics including the formation of the colonial Brazil and the emergence of the nation of Brazil as a tropical paradise; slavery and abolition; the particularities century; and the contradictions of the modernization process throughout the 20th century. We will consider elements of Brazilian popular culture such as Carnival, Samba, and "telenovels," and some of the most important cultural movements of the 20th century, such as "Modernismo," "Cinema Novo," and "Tropicalia." The primary objective of the course is to provide students with the relevant background to understand Brazilian cultural history.#


$PSYCH | Psychology$
&PSYCH 1101 | Introduction to Psychology&
#Why are people superstitious? Why do people blush when they are embarrassed? What is intelligence (and are IQ tests a good way to measure it)? Why don't psychopaths feel guilty when they harm others? How reliable are childhood memories? Why do we laugh? Do violent video games make people act violently? Why do some people seem instantly trustworthy and others seem "creepy"? How do we choose whom to sleep with, date, or marry? How does stress affect our body? While questions like these have been asked for centuries, psychology has begun to provide answers to these - and other questions about the human mind - by applying the tools of scientific investigation. In this course you will receive a broad introduction to the science of psychology: from the history of the field and its major advances, to the latest research on topics such as perception, memory, intelligence, morality, sexuality, mental illness, religion, language, and creativity. You will also learn about the tools and methods psychologists use to investigate the mind, such as observing how the mind of a child changes and develops over time, looking at people across cultures, measuring brain activity, and experimentally manipulating everything from the shape of a figure presented on a computer screen, to the smell of a room, or the attractiveness of the experimenter.#
&PSYCH 1120 | FWS:Personality & Social Psychology&
#No description available.#
&PSYCH 1130 | FWS:Behavioral Evolution Psych&
#Behavioral & Evolutionary Neuroscience Psychology seeks to understand behavior and cognition through investigations of the integrated roles of evolution, development, and mechanisms. The emphasis is on naturalistic behaviors of animals and ecologically relevant behaviors of humans. Comparative perspectives are well represented, the full range of development, including aging, is investigated, and both social and non-social behaviors are explained. Core questions are, what are the mechanisms (brain, sensory, endocrine, and behavioral) that enable animals (including humans) to behave appropriately? How do these mechanisms work? How do they develop? How did they evolve?#
&PSYCH 1140 | FWS: Perception, Cognition, and Development&
#How do we perceive, learn about, and store information about the environments around us? How does what we have learned affect how we perceive and understand? PCD researchers in the graduate field of psychology at Cornell study human perception, language, and memory, as well as the development of various cognitive functions in infants. The methods they use are diverse, and range from human behavioral experiments in development, perception, and psycholinguistics, through computational modeling and simulation of auditory, visual, and language processes, to human electrophysiology by means of event-related potential (ERP) analysis.#
&PSYCH 2090 | Developmental Psychology&
#One of four introductory courses in cognition and perception. A comprehensive introduction to current thinking and research in developmental psychology that approaches topics from both psychobiological and cognitive perspectives. We will use a comparative approach to assess principles of development change. The course focuses on the development of perception, action, cognition, language, and social understanding in infancy and early childhood.#
&PSYCH 2091 | WIM: Developmental Psychology&
#This section is highly recommended for students who are interested in learning about the topics covered in the main course through writing and discussion.#
&PSYCH 2150 | Psychology of Language&
#Provides an introduction to the psychology of language. The purpose of the course is to introduce students to the scientific study of psycholinguistic phenomena. Covers a broad range of topics from psycholinguistics, including the origin of language, the different components of language (phonology, morphology, syntax, and semantics), processes involved in reading, computational modeling of language processes, the acquisition of language (both under normal and special circumstances), and the brain bases of language.#
&PSYCH 2300 | How the Brain Makes the Mind&
#There is no getting away from the brain. Everything a person does, creates, thinks, feels, believes, and experiences (including making sense of course descriptions!) depends on it. But, how? How could a three pound mass of cells and the body in which it exists "see," "decide," or "remember," let alone navigate a busy city, play soccer, or write poetry? This course will provide students with the foundational concepts and tools they will need to begin to address these questions, providing insight into how modern cognitive neuroscientists understand the brain, how it works, and how the mind emerges from all of this. Students will learn core principles of modern human cognitive neuroscience (e.g., brain structure versus function, connectivity, reuse) and their application to cognition (e.g., action, perception, attention, memory, emotion, language, cognitive control, and consciousness). Topics in neuroanatomy, human neuroscience methods, and neurological conditions will also be covered.#
&PSYCH 2415 | Introduction to Moral Psychology&
#This course is an introduction to the moral mind from philosophical and psychological perspectives. Many traditional philosophical problems about morality are being illuminated by current work in cognitive science. In this course, we will look at several of these problems. In each case, we will begin with a presentation of the philosophical problems, and we will proceed to examine recent empirical work on the topic. A wide range of topics will be covered, including moral judgment, agency, the self, and punishment.#
&PSYCH 2650 | Psychology and Law&
#This course explores how cognitive, social & clinical psychology are used in law. Law makes many assumptions about human psychology, and lawyers and judges regularly rely on psychological research in their cases. The course examines the psychology underlying criminal confessions; children's testimony; the insanity defense; risk assessment; judge and jury decision making; criminal punishment; constitutional law; and common law (tort, contract, and property) disputes. The course assesses the use and misuse of psychology in these subjects.#
&PSYCH 2800 | Introduction to Social Psychology&
#Introduction to research and theory in social psychology. Topics include social influence, persuasion, and attitude change; culture, social interaction and group phenomena; evolution, altruism, and aggression; stereotyping, prejudice and discrimination; everyday reasoning and judgment.#
&PSYCH 2801 | Introduction to Social Psychology: Writing in the Majors&
#Writing in the Majors section of PSYCH 2800. In addition to attending all the lectures in PSYCH 2800, students will attend an additional weekly seminar and all assessment is based on writing instead of exams. This course is an introduction to research and theory in social psychology, covering the same material as in PSYCH 2800 (social influence, persuasion, and attitude change; social interaction and group phenomena; altruism and aggression; stereotyping and prejudice; everyday reasoning and judgment).#
&PSYCH 2940 | Better Decisions for Life, Love and Money&
#Effective judgments and decisions are critical to success in every avenue of life. This course will explore research on the principles of sound judgment and decision making, and on the ways in which people's judgments and decisions are prone to bias and error. The course aims to improve students' critical thinking skills and to enable them to make better judgments and decisions in an increasingly complicated world. The course is taught by a team of psychologists and economists who draw on recent research in psychology and behavioral economics that can benefit the lives of students.#
&PSYCH 2945 | Data Science for Social Scientists II&
#This is a course on applications of data science in social science using R. We will cover fundamentals of statistical and causal inference, exploratory data analysis and data reduction, supervised learning, and recent, prominent applications of machine learning in social science.#
&PSYCH 3130 | Language and Power&
#In this course, we will explore how language interacts with power: how does language reflect, shape, threaten and reinforce power relations in human society? From childhood through old age, language is an ever-present source of symbolic power. We use it to develop and express our identities, to position ourselves in hierarchies, and to establish group membership and exclusion throughout life. Language shapes ourselves, our families, our social lives, and our institutions. Understanding how people use language can provide a window into hidden aspects of both individuals and the social world.#
&PSYCH 3140 | Computational Psychology&
#This course states and motivates the observation that cognition is fundamentally a computational process and explores the implications of this idea. Students are introduced to a variety of conceptual tools for thinking about cognitive information processing, including statistical learning from experience and the use of patterns distilled from past experience in guiding future actions. They learn to apply these tools to gain understanding of perception, memory, motor control, language, action planning, problem solving, decision making, reasoning, intelligence, and creativity.#
&PSYCH 3150 | Obesity and the Regulation of Body Weight&
#Multidisciplinary discussion of the causes, effects, and treatments of human obesity. Topics include the biopsychology of eating behavior, the genetics of obesity, the role of activity and energy metabolism, the psychosocial determinants of obesity, anorexia nervosa, therapy and its effectiveness, and social discrimination.Multidisciplinary discussion of the causes, effects, and treatments of human obesity. Topics include the biopsychology of eating behavior, the genetics of obesity, the role of activity and energy metabolism, the psychosocial determinants of obesity, anorexia nervosa, therapy and its effectiveness, and social discrimination.#
&PSYCH 3220 | Hormones and Behavior&
#Covers comparative and evolutionary approaches to the study of the relationship between peripheral hormones and neuroendocrine mechanisms in vertebrates, including humans, with sexual behavior, affiliative bonds and social grouping, parental behavior, aggression, mating systems, stress, learning and memory, and biological rhythms.#
&PSYCH 3250 | Adult Psychopathology&
#A theoretical and empirical approach to the biological, psychological, and social (including cultural and historical) aspects of adult psychopathology. Readings range from Freud to topics in psychopharmacology. The major mental illnesses are covered, including schizophrenia as well as mood, anxiety, and personality disorders. Childhood disorders are not covered.#
&PSYCH 3310 | Developmental Psychopathology&
#Why do some children grow up well-adjusted and others do not? This course applies a developmental framework to understanding psychological disorders. We will consider the common disorders of childhood and adolescence; the individual contexts which promote risk versus resiliency; trends and trajectories in disorders over time; and the complex ethical issues associated with the diagnosis and treatment of disorders early in life.#
&PSYCH 3420 | Human Perception: Application to Computer Graphics, Art, and Visual Display&
#Our present technology allows us to transmit and display information through a variety of media. To make the most of these media channels, it is important to consider the limitations and abilities of the human observer. The course considers a number of applied aspects of human perception with an emphasis on the display of visual information. Topics include "three-dimensional" display systems, color theory, spatial and temporal limitations of the visual systems, attempts at subliminal communication, and "visual" effects in film and television.#
&PSYCH 3450 | On Being Social&
#Humans are said to be "social animals." This seminar provides an in-depth exploration of what it means to be social. Examples of topics to be covered include the fundamental need to belong and the affiliative system underlying cooperation; attachment and the proclivity to form strong affective ties throughout the life span; the biological bases of attraction and relationship formation; and the various consequences of thwarted relational needs, including the end of relationships through break-up, divorce, or death, and social alienation and chronic loneliness. We will focus on people's most intimate relationships – with partners, parents, and close friends – but will explore how our social nature is expressed in diverse ways – with unknown others, in social networks, and with political leaders, celebrities, and objects. These topics will be considered from diverse theoretical perspectives including work from social neuroscience, social, personality, developmental, cognitive, and evolutionary psychology, as well as drawing from work in communications, information science, sociology, and political science. Articles will be a combination of theoretical, review, or perspective pieces as well as empirical papers.#
&PSYCH 4230 | Navigation, Memory, and Context: What Does the Hippocampus Do?&
#Although the hippocampus has been the subject of intense scrutiny for nearly 50 years, there remains considerable disagreement about functional contributions the hippocampus makes to learning and memory process. This course will examine the diverse functions attributed to the hippocampus with an eye toward integrating the differing viewpoints in the literature. After a brief historical overview, students will discuss cutting-edge literature on the hippocampal role in spatial navigation, learning, and memory, and context processing.#
&PSYCH 4320 | Topics in Cognitive Science&
#A seminar series examining current and classical ideas in human sciences and the humanities.  Themes vary from semester to semester.#
&PSYCH 4390 | Neural Circuits for Social Behavior&
#This course explores what is known, and what remains unknown, about the neural circuits that control social behavior, including parental behavior, sexual behavior, aggression, and vocalization. How do neural circuits control and coordinate distinct social behaviors? How are sex-typical social behaviors generated? How do past experiences and internal states influence social behavior, and what are the neural mechanisms for these effects? This course focuses mainly, although not exclusively, on research performed in non-human animals, and we'll also examine differences and similarities in the neural circuits for social behavior across species.#
&PSYCH 4560 | Black Girlhood Studies: Rememory, Representation, and Re-Imagination&
#How has history shaped our notion of Black girlhood? What is our collective understanding of Black girlhood? How do we see and understand Black girls? Black Girlhood Studies is a multidisciplinary field that draws on education, literature, psychological, and sociological perspectives as tools to see and honor Black girls' lived experiences. In this seminar course, we will use a mixture of lectures and facilitated discussions to provide an overview of Black girlhood as it relates to historical and current-day social, political, and cultural constructions of Black girlhood within and beyond the United States. We will also interrogate how Black girls deconstruct and interrupt these social constructions by engaging in scholarly works, popular press articles, poetry, music, film, and novels. Throughout the course, we will make space to imagine a world where Black girls' ways of knowing, being, and experiencing the world are honored.#
&PSYCH 4600 | Neural Representations&
#Neurons generate action potentials. Brains underlie feeding, fighting, fleeing, and reproduction, also navigation, attention, sociality, art, and science. What about the middle part? This advanced seminar course examines the construction and transformations of neural representations that enable animals to comprehend and interact effectively with their environments. The curriculum emphasizes integration across levels of analysis and organization, including cellular and synaptic physiology, the emergent properties of networks, energy and information management, quantitative modeling, cognitive algorithms, and adaptive behavioral outcomes.#
&PSYCH 4670 | Advanced Seminar in Mood Disorders&
#No description available.#
&PSYCH 4700 | Undergraduate Research in Psychology&
#Practice in planning, conducting, and reporting independent laboratory, field, and/or library research.#
&PSYCH 4710 | Advanced Undergraduate Research in Psychology&
#Advanced experience in planning, conducting, and reporting independent laboratory, field, and/or library research. One, and preferably two, semesters of PSYCH 4700 is required. The research should be more independent and/or involve more demanding technical skills than that carried out in PSYCH 4700.#
&PSYCH 4800 | Social Psychology of Race and Racism&
#The human mind has a fundamental need to create categories. In this course we will examine how historical, developmental, cognitive, and motivational factors give rise to the construction of the social category race in the United States. We will also consider how racial group membership - and its intersections with other group memberships - can profoundly influence one's experience of the world and each other. To understand the construct of race and its consequences we will perform close reading and critical analysis of theoretical and empirical work in social psychology.  As social psychologists, we are uniquely poised to answer why it is we are so drawn to categorizing people based on race, how our minds construct these categorizations, and what the downstream consequences of these categorizations are - ultimately guiding our ability to intervene.  The aims of the course are to enhance students' ability to evaluate and analyze existing theory and research and to apply these readings to aid understanding of real world discrimination, disparities, and violence.#
&PSYCH 4940 | Moral Psychology in Action&
#Moral Psychology in Action is an applied psychology course for students who want to make a difference in the world through ethical leadership and positive contributions in organizations, and who are drawn to scholarly work on psychology, ethics, and morality.  The course is experiential and takes place mostly outside the classroom through students' individualized partnerships in community organizations, businesses, and institutions.  Learning outcomes include enhanced critical reflection, intercultural competence, ethical practice, and the practice of applied moral psychology research methods.#
&PSYCH 5760 | Quantitative Methods II&
#This second part of the graduate statistics sequence is intended to teach more advanced techniques of modern quantitative data analysis, with a focus on the analysis of non-randomized studies. We will cover a variety of models, including models with linear and non-linear effects, model with random effects, and models for limited dependent variables.#
&PSYCH 6000 | General Research Seminar&
#This course is designed to introduce first-year graduates to the Psychology Department faculty through a weekly series of presentations of current research.#
&PSYCH 6140 | Computational Psychology&
#This course states and motivates the observation that cognition is fundamentally a computational process and explores the implications of this idea. Students are introduced to a variety of conceptual tools for thinking about cognitive information processing, including statistical learning from experience and the use of patterns distilled from past experience in guiding future actions. They learn to apply these tools to gain understanding of perception, memory, motor control, language, action planning, problem solving, decision making, reasoning, intelligence, and creativity.#
&PSYCH 6230 | Navigation, Memory, and Context: What Does the Hippocampus Do?&
#Although the hippocampus has been the subject of intense scrutiny for nearly 50 years, there remains considerable disagreement about functional contributions the hippocampus makes to learning and memory process. This seminar will examine the diverse functions attributed to the hippocampus with an eye toward integrating the differing viewpoints in the literature. After a brief historical overview, students will discuss cutting-edge literature on the hippocampal role in spatial navigation, learning, and memory, and context processing.#
&PSYCH 6271 | Topics in Biopsychology&
#Course explores current issues in Psychology.  Topics vary by section.#
&PSYCH 6450 | On Being Social&
#No description available.#
&PSYCH 6655 | Topics in Cognition&
#No description available.#
&PSYCH 6800 | Social Psychology of Race and Racism&
#The human mind has a fundamental need to create categories. In this course we will examine how historical, developmental, cognitive, and motivational factors give rise to the construction of the social category of race in the United States. We wll also consider how racial group membership - and its intersections with other group memberships - can profoundly influence one's experience of the world and each other. To understand the construct of race and its consequences we will perform close reading and critical analysis of theoretical and empirical work in social psychology.#
&PSYCH 7000 | Research in Biopsychology&
#A graduate research seminar in biopsychology.#
&PSYCH 7090 | Developmental Psychology&
#One of four introductory courses in cognition and perception. A comprehensive introduction to current thinking and research in developmental psychology that approaches problems from both psychobiological and cognitive perspectives. We will use a comparative approach to assess principles of development change. The course focuses on the development of perception, action, cognition, language, and social understanding in infancy and early childhood.#
&PSYCH 7100 | Research in Human Experimental Psychology&
#A graduate research seminar in human experimental psychology.#
&PSYCH 7200 | Research in Social Psychology and Personality&
#A graduate research seminar in social psychology and personality.#
&PSYCH 7760 | Proseminar in Social Psychology II&
#Second semester of a year-long discussion-seminar course intended to give graduate students an in-depth understanding of current research and theory in social psychology. Emphasizes social cognition, but other topics, such as group dynamics, social influence, moral psychology and emotional experience are covered.#
&PSYCH 9000 | Doctoral Thesis Research in Biopsychology&
#A graduate seminar on doctoral thesis research in biopsychology.#
&PSYCH 9100 | Doctoral Thesis Research in Human Experimental Psychology&
#A graduate seminar on doctoral thesis research in human experimental psychology.#
&PSYCH 9200 | Doctoral Thesis Research in Social Psychology and Personality&
#A graduate seminar on doctoral thesis research in social psychology and personality.#


$PUBPOL | Public Policy$
&PUBPOL 1112 | Career Explorations in Public Policy&
#This is a course designed specifically for Brooks School undergraduates interested in exploring the range of careers that a Public Policy or Health Care Policy degree can provide. Careers may include business, consulting, finance, health, higher education, government, law, non-profit work, public policy, research, and  much more. Alumni representing these disciplines will be invited to discuss how their policy degree influenced their work while addressing current issues, trends, and career opportunities.#
&PUBPOL 2000 | Intermediate Microeconomics&
#Topics include theory of demand and consumer behavior including classical and indifference curve analyses; theories of production and cost; models for the following markets-competitive, monopoly, monopolistic competition, oligopoly, and inputs; general equilibrium; welfare economics; public goods; and risk.#
&PUBPOL 2030 | Population and Public Policy&
#Population and Public Policy exposes students to the logic and skills of demographic research and policy analysis. The course emphasizes the nature, collection, and interpretation of demographic data, the application of demographic techniques, the major components (i.e., fertility, mortality, and migration) of national and global population change, and contemporary population problems (e.g., population aging, teen childbearing, the rise in non-marital childbearing, immigrant adaptation). The course also emphasizes public policies that can influence demographic change. The format primarily involves lectures and class discussion. Students are expected to attend each class and be prepared to discuss assigned materials.#
&PUBPOL 2050 | Critical Perspectives in Global Health and Policy&
#This course offers an interdisciplinary approach to global health and policy, emphasizing health equity, community perspectives, and advocacy. Students will explore the complex interplay of theoretical, historical, economic, political, environmental, social, and behavioral factors that impact health outcomes in low- and middle-income countries. The course aims to broaden students' understanding of global health by engaging with key concepts such as the global burden of disease, global health governance, diplomacy, ethics, and advocacy. We will examine a range of health issues, from infectious diseases (e.g., HIV/AIDS, Mpox, COVID-19) to non-communicable diseases to mental health and environmental health, with a focus on how these are exacerbated by social and structural determinants. Additionally, the course will critically analyze the intersections of race, gender, and other social categories in shaping global health disparities. Students will bridge theory to practice through case studies by evaluating global health policies and interventions. By the end of the course, students will develop critical thinking, policy analysis, and advocacy skills, enabling them to assess and contribute to solutions for pressing global health challenges.#
&PUBPOL 2100 | Introduction to Statistics&
#The course introduces students to standard methods of describing and analyzing data, probability theory, statistical inference, and ordinary least squares. Students will learn to describe data with summary tables and charts, understand and apply probability theory to data, understand sampling distributions, conduct hypothesis tests, estimate regressions, and interpret statistical findings. Students will also learn to use the basics of Excel to analyze data.#
&PUBPOL 2120 | Disruptive and Emerging Technologies: Policy and Practice&
#Artificial Intelligence (AI), autonomous systems, robotics, and quantum technologies (to name but a few) present novel, disruptive, and often unforeseen challenges for policymakers globally. This half-semester course will provide an overview of critical technology policy challenges, with a focus on 4th Industrial Revolution technologies and their impact on international peace and security. Students will begin by exploring the theories of technological innovation and the history of disruptive and emerging technologies in practice. A focused case study approach is then adopted to present a week-by-week real-world analysis of the current pressing technological and security challenges faced by policymakers at a domestic and international level. As a means to prepare for the final assessments, students will produce a mid-term paper answering the question 'How has the 4th Industrial Revolution impacted international peace and security?' (5 pages of double-spaced text excluding tables, figures, and references). Students will then be required to conduct independent research on a technology of their choice from the module. Towards the end of term, the students will present on this research, and write a short policy report on the technology researched, with a focus on the security and policy challenges it presents (10-12 pages of double-spaced text excluding tables, figures, and references). Presentations will be 10 mins (max) and will focus on your chosen topic for the policy report. Students will present in the final week of class.#
&PUBPOL 2130 | Data and the State: How Governments See People and Places&
#In order to regulate and govern, states must marshall data: the whos, whats, and wheres of a nation get rendered in records and statistics, at least approximately, and they tell us a lot about identity and values. In this course we will use Census data as a jumping-off point for an investigation of data practices of governance. Students will learn tools for geospatial data science in Python/Geopandas and will learn principles of mapping. Readings include selections from geography, anthropology, science and technology studies, and urban sociology.#
&PUBPOL 2208 | Social Inequality&
#This course reviews contemporary approaches to understanding social inequality and the processes by which it comes to be seen as legitimate, natural, or desirable. We address questions of the following kind: what are the major forms of stratification in human history? Are inequality and poverty inevitable? How many social classes are there in advanced industrialism societies? Is there a "ruling class"? Are lifestyles, attitudes, and personalities shaped fundamentally by class membership? Can individuals born into poverty readily escape their class origins and move upward in the class structure? Are social contacts and "luck" important forces in matching individuals to jobs and class positions? What types of social processes serve to maintain and alter racial, ethnic, and gender discrimination in labor markets? Is there an "underclass"? These and other questions are addressed in light of classical and contemporary theory and research.#
&PUBPOL 2301 | Introduction to Public Policy&
#The pressing issues of our time—from climate change to national security, from immigration to policing, from global economic development to domestic voting rights—are deeply intertwined with public policy decisions made by governments. In this course, we consider how societal conditions come to be defined as problems for governments to solve, the role of public and private actors in influencing policy processes, and how we know whether policies achieve their goals. Course readings, lectures, discussions, and experiential learning assignments provide opportunities for students to critically analyze public policy processes and outcomes from multiple disciplinary perspectives, including economics, political science, and sociology. The course also introduces students to key areas of public policy including technology policy; environmental and sustainability policy; global security; health policy; inequality and social policy; international development; and race, racism and public policy.#
&PUBPOL 2320 | Global Democracy and Public Policy&
#This course explores trends in democracy around the world as both a product of public policy (which policies support and bolster democratic transitions and endurance), and as a factor that shapes representation, public policy and governance outcomes. How citizen interests translate into public policy outcomes is a key question of democratic practice. The course will identify variation across the world and use empirical analysis to identify patterns. It provides an opportunity to investigate the complex ways that regime politics (whether democratic or autocratic), public policies, and social inequalities shape one another.#
&PUBPOL 2370 | Race, Racism, and Public Policy&
#Public policy is a fundamental mechanism for addressing the most vexing and important social problems of our time. Racial inequality and structural racism are chief among such problems. Policy is thus widely understood and frequently touted as a means for redressing the harms of racism. Yet, public policy has also been identified as a channel through which racism flows. These seemingly paradoxical understandings of the relationships between racism and public policy raise critical questions about equality, democracy, the economy, and politics. This course examines such questions. questions. We begin by theoretically grounding key concepts such as "race" "racism" and "public policy." We then consider the historical record, highlighting the fundamental role of racism in shaping politics and policy. Next, we build on these conceptual and historical foundations through thematic investigation of core policy elements (e.g., policy design, policy implementation, policy feedback), key policy institutions (e.g., legislatures, parties) and significant policy actors (e.g., social movement organizations, interest groups). Finally, the class wraps up with a series of policy "deep dives" involving close examination of specific policy domains (e.g., housing, health, the enviornment). This course provides students with the knowledge and analytical tools necessary to better understand the realities and complexities of race, racism, and public policy in the United States.#
&PUBPOL 3010 | Contemporary Security Policy&
#This full-semester course will provide an introduction to the diverse and contested field of security studies, including both the Traditional and Critical approaches. It covers the foundational theoretical approaches in the field of security studies – Realism, Liberalism, Constructivism, Critical Theory, Feminism and Gender Security, and PostStructural and Postcolonial Perspectives. It also questions how security policy is developed and implemented and the historical, economic, political, and social power dynamics that influence how 'security policy' is constructed and implemented by nation-states. Alongside the study of theory, the course covers a wide range of contemporary security issues - from the return of inter-state conflict and nuclear deterrence to terrorism, environmental security, and health security – and applies the theories and concepts of security studies to real-world examples.#
&PUBPOL 3020 | Being Native in the 21st Century: American Indian and Alaska Native Politics, History, and Policy&
#The course examines the historical political landscape of American Indians and Alaska Natives in the United States and the interplay between tribal interests, politics, and the federal government. The course also looks at contemporary Native issues, federal policy and programs, tribal governance, relations between Tribal Nations and states and between Tribal Nations and the federal government. Finally, the course will explore Indigenous pop-culture and its influence on federal policy.#
&PUBPOL 3060 | Political Messaging and Public Policy&
#This course will explore the history, research, and present-day usage of political messaging to achieve public policy aims — from elections to legislative battles in Congress. We'll break down how political actors craft messages across different mediums to activate matrices of voters scattered across the electorate. In doing so, we'll discuss the psychology of voter decision making, the influence of popular culture, changing patterns of media consumption, and how political messaging really works behind the scenes, from ad-making to earned media. Most importantly, we'll draw in outside experts from across the political spectrum to discuss their experience in political communications — offering students a practical view into real-life politicking and an enhanced understanding of the professional landscape. Students will put these ideas into practice through active participation in class discussions and rigorously researched written assignments analyzing real-life political messages.#
&PUBPOL 3100 | Multiple Regression Analysis&
#Introduces basic econometric principles and the use of statistical procedures in empirical studies of economic models. Discusses assumptions, properties, and problems encountered in the use of multiple regression procedures. Students are required to specify, estimate, and report the results of an empirical model.#
&PUBPOL 3112 | Congress and the Legislative Process&
#The course will be a lecture course on Congress, introducing them to the political science literature on the topic and the major research questions and approaches. We will examine the development of the institution, including formal theories for congressional organization as well as historically and politically oriented accounts of rule changes, committee power, and party influence. We will also look at the determinants of legislative productivity and gridlock, approaches to measuring and analyzing congressional behavior, the changing role of the electoral connection, and the causes and consequences of polarization.#
&PUBPOL 3130 | Behavioral Economics and Public Policy&
#Standard economic theory assumes that individuals are rational decision-makers; however, that is often not the case in the real world. Behavioral economics uses findings from psychology to determine ways in which individuals are systematically irrational to improve upon existing models. The first part of this course reviews these theories, while the second part of the course focuses on how these findings have been used to design better education, health, and tax policies as well as many others.#
&PUBPOL 3180 | Health Disparities&
#This course will examine how health disparities are defined and measured, sources of health disparities, and strategies to reduce health disparities. During the course students will learn of the complexities of factors that influence patterns of disease and health at multiple levels by analyzing studies of health outcomes, the social conditions that are related to the health of populations, and some of the mechanisms through which these patterns are produced.#
&PUBPOL 3270 | Constitutional Law: An Introduction&
#In this course, we will examine one of the most important documents in American history – our Constitution.  Course topics will include the historical background of the document from the Magna Carta to the Declaration of Independence and the Articles of Confederation.  We will look at the creation of the Constitution, including the conflict between strong supporters of this proposed new Constitution (Federalists) and their opponents (Anti-Federalists). How did the Founders resolve their differences and what led the States to adopt a document limiting and balancing the powers of the President, Congress, and the Judiciary? We shall look at the constant tension (from the beginning to the present) over the balance of power between the three co-equal branches.  We shall discuss the role of the Constitution from both empirical and theoretical perspectives and look at how it has evolved from 1788 to the present day. Special attention will be paid to the use of Amendments, particularly the Bill of Rights, to address events/circumstances unforeseen by the drafters.  Finally, the course will discuss critical cases where the Supreme Court defined and redefined what the Constitution meant.#
&PUBPOL 3290 | Cybercrime&
#This course will explore, from a policy and governance perspective, the evolving landscape of cybercrime.  We will evaluate legal and regulatory frameworks, approaches and challenges for addressing cybercrime's personal, national and geopolitical risks.  We also will examine the privacy and security implications of cybercrime investigations, and the policy considerations and ethical challenges related to ransomware, AI, data collection, surveillance and disclosures.  During the semester we will engage in an interactive tabletop scenario of a cybersecurity crisis, to work together in applying best practices and lessons learned.#
&PUBPOL 3330 | Children's Law and Policy&
#This class explores the most pressing legal and policy dilemmas in the field of children's rights. We will take a U.S. and international law approach to major topics including: protection from child abuse and neglect; alternative care and adoption; juvenile justice, police and community violence; education rights, including the rights of children with disabilities; internet freedoms and dangers, including cyberbullying and pornography; health and medical decision-making; sexual abuse, exploitation and trafficking; the rights of refugee and immigrant children; child poverty; the right to a sustainable environment; and issues of "child voice", including children's rights to participate in the political process and the ethical obligations governing the legal representation of children.#
&PUBPOL 3380 | Markets, the Environment and Public Policy&
#This course is a survey of environmental economics and policy, covering both general models and specific applications. We learn how economists estimate the demand for environmental goods and services and the costs of preserving them, and then study the efficient extraction of oil and minerals, economics of pollution control, climate change, fisheries, forests, and endangered species. We also cover the intersection of international trade and environmental regulation, as well as sustainability.#
&PUBPOL 3480 | Sustainability Education Policy in the U.S. and Ecuador&
#This course connects Cornell and USFQ students to study Sustainability Education Policy in the U.S. and Ecuador. Focusing on UN SDG 4, the course includes collaborative research, international exchange, and direct engagement with local educators and policymakers to address global education challenges and promote sustainable development.#
&PUBPOL 3520 | Economic and Policy Implications of Artificial Intelligence&
#The rapid evolution of artificial intelligence (AI) brings both great promise and daunting challenges for the future of humanity. This course examines the impacts of AI from an economist's perspective. We will present the economic framework conventionally used for thinking about technology in the macroeconomy and extend it to analyze the implications of AI. A special focus will be on the disparate labor market consequences of AI and policy measures to address these challenges. Additionally, we will explore, at a more micro-level, the issues of machine bias and algorithmic fairness and discuss the policy implications.#
&PUBPOL 3523 | Antisemitism, Islamophobia, Racism&
#Islamophobia and Judeophobia are ideas and like all ideas they have a history of their own. Although today many might think of Islamophobia or Judeophobia as unchangeable—fear of and hatred for Islam and Muslims or Judaism and Jews—these ideas and the social and political practices informed by them have varied greatly over time and place. They even intersected during the Middle Age and in Ottoman times when "the Jew" was frequently represented as allied with "The Muslim". The first part of this course traces the history, trajectory, and political agency of Judeophobia and Islamophobia in texts and other forms of culture from late antiquity through the present. The second part of the course is devoted to modernity and the present especially in Europe and the United States focusing on representational practices—how Muslims/Islam and Jews/Judaism are portrayed in various discourses including the media, film and on the internet. We will investigate how these figures (the Muslim, the Jew) serve as a prism through which we can understand various social, political and cultural processes and the interests of those who produce and consume them.#
&PUBPOL 3560 | Market Design for Public Policy&
#This course introduces students to public policy applications of game theory and market design, including (i) matching algorithms for assignment problems such as school choice, public housing allocation, kidney exchange, refugee resettlement, and labor markets; (ii) auction design for allocation of natural resources, public radio spectrum, emission permits, and government procurement; (iii) platform/exchange design for online markets.#
&PUBPOL 3583 | Comparative Public Policy: Political Pathways to Equality&
#Why do some countries offer universal health care coverage, free higher education, or personal financial security, while others do not?  What explains the alternative national approaches to similar global challenges, such as those posed by climate change, the gig economy, or migration? This course explores how the public policy strategies adopted in the United States compare to those adopted in other affluent democracies – through the lens of socio-economic inequality. Examining how different countries confront the same issue allows us to identify the policies that redress it, how their content can vary, and why so. The course therefore underscores the reason for these differences: politics and government. Together, we will examine the multiple political pathways to creating public policy across these societies, as well as their effects on the people that live in them.#
&PUBPOL 3590 | Environmental Justice and Policy&
#Environmental justice, as defined by the U.S. EPA, refers to the fair treatment and meaningful involvement of all individuals—regardless of income, race, color, national origin, Tribal affiliation, or disability—in agency decision-making and federal activities that impact human health and the environment. This principle ensures that all people are protected from disproportionate and adverse effects on their health and environment, including risks related to climate change, cumulative environmental burdens, and the legacy of racism and systemic barriers. It also emphasizes equitable access to a healthy, sustainable, and resilient environment for living, playing, working, learning, growing, worshipping, and engaging in cultural and subsistence practices (U.S. EPA, 2024). This hands-on seminar course explores key topics, policies, and themes in environmental justice, focusing on the disproportionate impacts of climate change and related adaptation and mitigation efforts, particularly on vulnerable groups, communities of color, and Indigenous communities. Additionally, the course examines policy drivers and levers that can create opportunities for meaningful change in the future.#
&PUBPOL 3615 | Sustainable Finance: Southeast Asia and Global Perspectives&
#Climate change presents a dilemma. Under the Paris Agreement, countries of the world committed to the goal of limiting warming to no more than two degrees Celsius from pre-industrial times. Scientists have warned that exceeding the threshold would increase the risks of heatwaves, drought, and extreme weather. Achieving the target, however, requires collective efforts to reduce emissions. Households, businesses, and governments would have to radically shift to cleaner energy supply and greener activities, which will take a great deal of financial resources. Sustainable finance attempts to address this challenge by integrating finance as a discipline into the sustainability framework. Designed for policy students, this course considers the perspectives of policymakers rather than business actors in navigating the green transition. Case studies will be drawn primarily from Southeast Asia, which is considered one of the most vulnerable regions to climate change, although much of the framework is also applicable to other regions around the globe.#
&PUBPOL 3650 | Social Care Navigation to Advance Health Equity&
#Unmet health related social needs (HRSN) – such as unstable housing, food insecurity, and lack of reliable transportation – exacerbate poor health. Health care organizations are increasingly screening patients for unmet HRSNs and collaborating with local community-based organizations (CBOs) to address patient social needs to deliver whole-person care and advance health equity. Critical to the screen-and-refer process are trained community members – patient social care navigators – who contact patients who screen positive for one or more HRSN and connect patients to local CBOs to meet those needs. This Engaged Cornell course collaborates with Cayuga Health to train students in social care navigation to connect patients to local CBOs. Students receive training in HRSN screening best practices, integrating social screening into electronic health records, care coordination and care delivery documentation, database management, cultural competency, and principles of complex care management such as meeting patients where they are, trust-building, and understanding complex interactions between structural racism, poverty, social drivers of health, and health inequities.#
&PUBPOL 3730 | Comparative Environmental Policy&
#This course focuses on environmental legislation such as the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA), the Clean Air Act (CAA), the Clean Water Act (CWA), and others as a foundation for US environmental policy. Internationally, focus on Environmental Policy in multiple countries and comparative to US environmental policy. Over the course we will discuss how environmental policy directly impacts community, public health, natural ecological systems, concepts of justice, and socioeconomics. We will explore these major environmental policies in the US as a basis of comparison and then apply those mechanism domestically or internationally to address climate change and improve other environment conditions. Students who seek to work in the US will build an analytic skill set to be competitive for jobs in environmental consulting, government, public policy, public health, non-profits, and advocacy groups.#
&PUBPOL 3860 | Women in Leadership and Entrepreneurship in Developing Country Contexts&
#This course investigates the evolution of discourses surrounding gender and development, focusing on how women have gained economic independence, agency, and socio-economic mobility in developing country contexts and have thus emerged as successful entrepreneurs and leaders in their respective eco-systems. It examines how certain socio-economic factors have lifted women out of poverty, exclusion, and marginalization. By exploring both individual potential and collective power through dedicated activism, the course spans the fields of economics, sociology, and public policy.#
&PUBPOL 3870 | Economic Evaluations in Health Care&
#This course covers economic evaluation methods used for decisions in the health care sector and health policy. Economic evaluations include cost analysis, cost-benefit analysis, cost-effectiveness analysis, and cost-utility analysis. The course discusses how to measure opportunity costs, monetary benefits, and health outcomes such as quality-adjusted life years. Actual economic evaluations of pharmaceuticals, health care and public health interventions, and health and safety policy are reviewed and critiqued.#
&PUBPOL 3880 | Dialogue Across Differences for Public Policy&
#How can we practice critical dialogue to analyze and address complex policy issues? Increasing polarization in our political climate has underscored the importance of dialogue across differences in political beliefs, social identities, and experiences. In this course, we will explore how we can put this aim into action by: learning key dialogue skills for listening to different perspectives and sharing our own; reflecting on how our connections to one another and to societal structures inform our responsibility and agency as political actors; and practicing dialogue through exploration of key policy issues. This course will be experiential and engaged. Students will be active participants in dialogue and will take responsibility for sustaining a learning community throughout the semester. This community will extend beyond our class and will include invited guests from among Brooks School faculty and Ithaca community practitioners, who will provide greater insights into each of the key policy issues.#
&PUBPOL 4000 | Directed Readings&
#For study that predominantly involves library research and independent reading.#
&PUBPOL 4010 | Empirical Research&
#For study that predominantly involves data collection and analysis.#
&PUBPOL 4020 | Supervised Fieldwork&
#For study that involves both responsible participation in a community setting and reflection on that experience through discussion, reading, and writing. Academic credit is awarded for this integration of theory and practice.#
&PUBPOL 4030 | Teaching Apprenticeship&
#For study that includes assisting faculty with instruction.#
&PUBPOL 4060 | Engaged Learning About Policy Making in Washington D.C.&
#The core course at Cornell in Washington is an engaged learning class that focuses on understanding and analyzing the professional experience of being in DC. Its primary purpose is to give students a chance to sunthesize the lessons of their internship work by examining and reflecting on that work, investigating the context and structures of the policy and political world with which they are engaging, and learning and practicing the professional forms of writing that the community uses. This process occurs through readings, written assignments, guest speakers, and signature events. An internship is required for the class.#
&PUBPOL 4160 | The Ethnography of Poverty and Inequality&
#This course explores poverty and inequality in American society through the lens of ethnographic and other field-based research. We will read classic and contemporary texts which have shaped our understanding of how social inequality and exclusion constrain people's daily lives and how groups develop innovative responses to these constraints.#
&PUBPOL 4281 | The Economics and Regulation of Risky Health Behaviors&
#Risky health behaviors such as drug abuse, alcohol abuse, cigarette smoking, risky sex, poor diet, physical inactivity, and self-harm are responsible for hundreds of thousands of preventable deaths and impose billions of dollars in medical care costs each year in the United States. This course teaches the economic approach to studying risky health behaviors. The research literature on the economic causes and correlates of risky health behaviors will be studied. Numerous policies to modify risky health behaviors, such as the minimum legal drinking age and recreational marijuana laws, will be debated in class. Students will also participate in a policy wargame on the subject of taxes on sugar-sweetened beverages.#
&PUBPOL 4961 | State Policy and Advocacy Clinic II&
#As a continuation of our work in PUBPOL 4960/PUBPOL 5960, we will learn how to design and advocate for specific state-level public policies by practicing these skills with community partners and stakeholders and before the legislative and administrative branches of the State of New York. In consultation with the professor, student teams will design and advocate for public policy proposals based on a review of the academic, governmental and think tank literature; conversations with subject matter experts at Cornell and various NGOs; research and analysis of similar proposals in other states and countries; conversations with state and local policymakers; and discussions with community members and organizations, including community partners with lived experience. Although we will engage in policy design and advocacy primarily in New York State, we will also provide research and policy design services to Stakeholderrs in other states, especially when a comparative or multi-state approach offers strategic benefits.#
&PUBPOL 4970 | New York State Government Affairs&
#This course is part of the Brooks School Capital Semester Program. During this program, students live and work in Albany as legislative aides to a New York State Senator or Assembly Member. They also attend a course on New York State Government and engage in discussion forums with key legislators and policymakers. Additionally, students receive mentorship from Cornell Government Affairs staff on-site. This mentorship includes opportunities to work on legislative priorities that align with students' interests and their assigned legislative tasks. The on-site staff help interns connect with state government officials in their areas of interest, including Cornell alumni and dignitaries. They also offer guidance on office work and internship coursework and provide background information on Albany's policies and politics, particularly related to higher education and Cornell's role as a New York State Land Grant University. Students receive a relocation allowance and a living stipend as part of the program.#
&PUBPOL 4990 | Honors Program&
#Provides students with the opportunity to undertake basic or applied research that will be preparation of a thesis representing original work of publishable quality. Intended for students who desire the opportunity to extend their interests and efforts beyond the current course offerings in the department. Furthermore, the program is designed to offer the student the opportunity to work closely with a professor on a topic of interest. The number of hours of thesis credit is determined by the student's research mentor. See the director of undergraduate studies for more details.#
&PUBPOL 5000 | Special Studies&
#This course is for students who wish to conduct independent study under the guidance of a faculty member from the Brooks MPA Program.#
&PUBPOL 5010 | Contemporary Security Policy&
#This full-semester course will provide an introduction to the diverse and contested field of security studies, including both the Traditional and Critical approaches. It covers the foundational theoretical approaches in the field of security studies – Realism, Liberalism, Constructivism, Critical Theory, Feminism and Gender Security, and PostStructural and Postcolonial Perspectives. It also questions how security policy is developed and implemented and the historical, economic, political, and social power dynamics that influence how 'security policy' is constructed and implemented by nation-states. Alongside the study of theory, the course covers a wide range of contemporary security issues - from the return of inter-state conflict and nuclear deterrence to terrorism, environmental security, and health security – and applies the theories and concepts of security studies to real-world examples.#
&PUBPOL 5012 | Professional Development for Public Affairs&
#This course prepares MPA students to enter the job market with the expertise and experience to launch a successful career as well as obtain professional skills necessary to be leaders in the field of public affairs. Topics covered in this course include the role of change management, leading people, results-driven leadership, business acumen, and coalition-building in successful public affairs practice.#
&PUBPOL 5020 | Native Politics and the Nation-to-Nation Relationship&
#The course examines the historical political landscape of American Indians and Alaska Natives in the United States and the interplay between tribal interests, politics, and the federal government. The course also looks at contemporary Native issues, federal policy and programs, tribal governance, relations between Tribal Nations and states and between Tribal Nations and the federal government. Finally, the course will explore Indigenous pop-culture and its influence on federal policy.  Classes will all be in person and will be a mixture of lectures and discussion-based seminars. The majority of classes will have a guest lecturer related to that week's topic. Guest lectures will include, but not limited to, political appointees, congressional staff, political advocates, elected tribal leaders, and more.#
&PUBPOL 5060 | Experiential Learning in Policy Making in Washington, DC&
#The core course at Cornell in Washington is an experiential learning class that focuses on engaging with the professional experience of being in DC. Its primary purposes are to give students to build their understanding of their internship work by analyzing and reflecting on that work, understanding the context and structures of the policy and political world with which they are engaging, and learning and practicing the professional forms of writing that that world uses. This process occurs through readings, written assignments, guest speakers, and signature events.#
&PUBPOL 5114 | Systems Leadership&
#This course will provide MPA students with a graduate-level overview of key principles and techniques in applying systems thinking to organizational leadership, change and design in public and nonprofit contexts. Of particular note is the opportunity for students to present their original research at a public symposium/conference at the end of the semester.#
&PUBPOL 5130 | Behavioral Economics and Public Policy&
#Standard economic theory assumes that individuals are rational decision-makers; however, that is often not the case in the real world. Behavioral economics uses findings from psychology to determine ways in which individuals are systematically irrational to improve upon existing models. The first part of this course reviews these theories, while the second part of the course focuses on how these findings have been used to design better education, health, and tax policies as well as many others.#
&PUBPOL 5132 | Legal Aspects of Public Agency Decision-Making&
#This course introduces the application of legal concepts to decision-making processes conducted by governmental agencies, particularly at the federal level. It explores how constitutional law, statutory law, and judge-made law shape agency decisions. Attention is given, for example, to roles agencies play in American government, differences between rule-making proceedings and adjudications, rights of parties to obtain judicial review of agency decisions, how judges review factual and legal determinations by agency officials, and the rights of parties appearing before agencies.#
&PUBPOL 5133 | Law and Public Agency Decisions for Executives&
#As technology improves and global infrastructure grows in complexity and reach, government bureaucracies struggle to keep pace. Agencies must adopt and execute new policies while conforming their actions to the rules of law. Administrative decisions affect our daily lives in countless ways, including food safety, weather forecasting, internet speed and availability, and trash collection to name a few. This course takes a comparative approach, examining different countries' methods for addressing the legal aspects of public administrative agencies with regard to their purpose, operation, rule-making, and ethics.#
&PUBPOL 5160 | Diversity, Dialogue and Ethical Leadership&
#This course equips students with critical skills for leading in diverse, global organizations. By exploring public narratives, the politics of diversity, and cross-cultural leadership, students will learn to reflect on social identities, facilitate meaningful dialogue, and navigate the complexities of Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DEI) in varied cultural contexts.#
&PUBPOL 5170 | Market Regulation for Executives&
#This graduate-level survey course addresses issues in market regulation and public policy. It reviews and applies tools acquired in prior economics and public administration classes to examine several important policy problems. This class will refine students' ability to use economics and statistics to illuminate the causes and consequences of several policy interventions. It will illustrate how those tools can help formalize and organize complex concepts and thus reveal both the intended and unintended effects of various policies. We examine several specific policies and their effects, including racial discrimination and deregulation in trucking, unintended effects of the Endangered Species Act, the move from a military draft to an All-Volunteer Military, and real-time, network-wide pricing of roads. A broader goal is a facility for reading relevant economic literature. As a graduate-level course, students are expected to have thoroughly read all materials prior to class and be well-prepared to discuss readings/cases/case memos with colleagues.#
&PUBPOL 5180 | Strategic Planning for Nonprofit Organizations&
#This graduate-level course covers the fundamentals of strategic planning applied to public and nonprofit sector contexts. We investigate the importance of strategic planning for organizational management as well as the fundamentals of how to develop an actionable strategic plan that supports organizational values and goals. Specifically, this course will teach basic skills in strategic thinking, stakeholder mapping, organizational analysis, and strategies for operationalizing growth. Special emphasis is on strategic planning as a policy and decision-making process with the potential to leverage underrepresented voices.#
&PUBPOL 5220 | Public Finance: Economics of the Public Sector&
#This course covers topics in public economics, macroeconomics, and political economy. The course will use the tools of economics to consider when and how the government should intervene in the economy, and how different levels of government might intervene differently. We will also devote some coverage to fiscal and monetary policy tools, basics of the business cycle, and determinants of economic growth. Both theory and applications will be covered.#
&PUBPOL 5230 | Comparative Education Policy&
#This course equips students to critically evaluate the role of education in society, analyze and compare global education policies, and assess their effectiveness. By applying theoretical perspectives and comparative methods, students will synthesize insights to propose informed policy reforms addressing social, economic, and political challenges in diverse contexts.#
&PUBPOL 5270 | Constitutional Law: An Introduction&
#In this course, we will examine one of the most important documents in American history – our Constitution.  Course topics will include the historical background of the document from the Magna Carta to the Declaration of Independence and the Articles of Confederation.  We will look at the creation of the Constitution, including the conflict between strong supporters of this proposed new Constitution (Federalists) and their opponents (Anti-Federalists). How did the Founders resolve their differences and what led the States to adopt a document limiting and balancing the powers of the President, Congress, and the Judiciary? We shall look at the constant tension (from the beginning to the present) over the balance of power between the three co-equal branches.  We shall discuss the role of the Constitution from both empirical and theoretical perspectives and look at how it has evolved from 1788 to the present day. Special attention will be paid to the use of Amendments, particularly the Bill of Rights, to address events/circumstances unforeseen by the drafters.  Finally, the course will discuss critical cases where the Supreme Court defined and redefined what the Constitution meant.#
&PUBPOL 5280 | Population Health for Health Managers&
#Population health focuses on the health and well‐being of entire populations. Populations may be geographically defined, such as neighborhoods or counties; may be based on groups of individuals who share common characteristics such as age, race‐ethnicity, disease status, or socioeconomic status; or may be "attributed" to accountable healthcare organizations using a variety of methods. With roots in epidemiology, public health, and demography, a key component of population health is the focus on the social determinants of health and collaborative, holistic, patient‐centered and coordinated care to improve population health, identify and reduce health disparities, improve healthcare quality, and reduce healthcare costs. Given the shifting health care environment – from fee‐for‐service to value‐based care – healthcare managers who are able to apply tools to measure, analyze, evaluate and improve population health (one aim of IHI's Triple Aim) will be well‐positioned for positions in health care as the field continues to evolve.#
&PUBPOL 5281 | The Economics and Regulation of Risky Health Behaviors&
#Risky health behaviors such as drug abuse, alcohol abuse, cigarette smoking, risky sex, poor diet, physical inactivity, and self-harm are responsible for hundreds of thousands of preventable deaths and impose billions of dollars in medical care costs each year in the United States. This course teaches the economic approach to studying risky health behaviors. The research literature on the economic causes and correlates of risky health behaviors will be studied. Numerous policies to modify risky health behaviors, such as the minimum legal drinking age and recreational marijuana laws, will be debated in class. Students will also participate in a policy wargame on the subject of taxes on sugar-sweetened beverages.#
&PUBPOL 5330 | Children's Law and Policy&
#This class explores the most pressing legal and policy dilemmas in the field of children's rights. We will take a U.S. and international law approach to major topics including: protection from child abuse and neglect; alternative care and adoption; juvenile justice, police and community violence; education rights, including the rights of children with disabilities; internet freedoms and dangers, including cyberbullying and pornography; health and medical decision-making; sexual abuse, exploitation and trafficking; the rights of refugee and immigrant children; child poverty; the right to a sustainable environment; and issues of "child voice", including children's rights to participate in the political process and the ethical obligations governing the legal representation of children.#
&PUBPOL 5360 | Program Evaluation for Community Organizations&
#This course serves as an introduction to the principles and practice of collaborative program evaluation for community-based organizations. This is an applied research methods course in which students will learn how to develop frameworks and tools that help small and mid-sized organizations answer the question: Is our program working? and/or how can our program be improved? This course is part conceptual, and part applied, teaching students critical thinking for evaluation and practical skills in M&E planning and evaluation design. During the semester students will work with a local community development organization in a consultancy project to design and present an evaluation plan for use in a real practice setting. All students will produce a rigorous non-experimental evaluation design for a local practice-partner organization or 'client.' This is an intensive field-based engaged course that requires substantial collaborative group work.#
&PUBPOL 5373 | Health Economics for Managers I&
#This course is the first of a two-part sequence for Executive Master of Health Administration (EMHA) students. The sequence is largely dichotomized into "demand-side" (first course) and "supply-side" (second course) health economics material. Both courses will review and enhance existing knowledge of health care delivery and related policy issues, using the lens and tools of microeconomics. Within Health Economics for Managers I, the specific topics covered will span consumer behavior, sources and markets for health insurance, health behaviors, and environmental and population health.#
&PUBPOL 5380 | Markets, the Environment and Public Policy&
#This course is a survey of environmental economics and policy, covering both general models and specific applications. We learn how economists estimate the demand for environmental goods and services and the costs of preserving them, and then study the efficient extraction of oil and minerals, economics of pollution control, climate change, fisheries, forests, and endangered species. We also cover the intersection of international trade and environmental regulation, as well as sustainability.#
&PUBPOL 5383 | Translational Research for Executives&
#The goal of this course is to provide students with an overview of the challenges and benefits of bridging research, practice, and policy. More specifically, the course focuses on the process of expanding, strengthening, and speeding the connections between cutting-edge research and the design, evaluation, and implementation of policies and practices that enhance human development, health, and well-being.#
&PUBPOL 5410 | Nonprofit Management and Finance&
#Provides students with a practitoner's focus on financial, managerial, and leadership issues in the non-profit sector, both domestic and international, including universities, hospitals, environmental groups, arts organizations, government agencies, and foundations. The course will include an overview of non-profit financial statements, financial ratios, debt issuance, bond ratings, endowment management, budgeting, venture philanthropy, auditing and ethics, tax issues, organizational governance, leadership, strategy, mergers and alliances, and executive compensation. The course includes such guest speakers as the founder of a major Indian non-profit organization, the head of credit ratings at Moody's, the leader of a social services agency, and others. The course has a mid-term and final exam along with three 5-page papers on completing a bond rating for a university, balancing a budget for a hospital, and recommending merger partners for a struggling non-profit.#
&PUBPOL 5411 | Technological Change at Work&
#Computers and digital technologies including robotics, machine learning, artificial intelligence (AI), internet-enabled platforms, and other "high-tech" drivers of automation have revolutionized the nature and organization of work in the U.S., with material implications for workers and their families, among others. This upper-level seminar begins with a rhetorical inquiry into whether and when the technological change engendered by digitization and the so-called "Information Technology (IT) Revolution" benefits workers. We then consider the broader impact of recent technological advances on manufacturing and fabrication, low- and semi-skilled service work, i.e., restaurant servers and bus drivers, and even on expert and professional work like that to which most of you presumably aspire. Among the central themes is the notion that technology does not unilaterally act upon workers, their employers, or society-at-large. Rather, workers, managers, customers, institutions, and policymakers shape which advances take hold and which do not, the ways that these technologies are deployed in the workplace, and the ways that society can actively mitigate the costs to technological advancement while harnessing its benefits.#
&PUBPOL 5418 | Strategic Stakeholder Engagement&
#This graduate-level survey course addresses the key concepts and tools of stakeholder identification, mapping, analysis and engagement strategies in working toward sustainable, positive development. With a particular focus on extractive industries in developing and emerging economies, the course is designed for students pursuing careers in sustainability in the public, private, or nonprofit sectors.#
&PUBPOL 5426 | Public Budgeting, Finance and Analysis&
#This course will contribute to the success of future public and nonprofit leaders by introducing them to a critical aspect of public service management, budgeting and finance. The course covers the terminology, components, practices, documents, and methods of public budgeting and finance at all levels of government and in the non-profit world.#
&PUBPOL 5431 | Fundraising, Grantmaking, and Lobbying&
#No description available.#
&PUBPOL 5441 | Effective Writing for Public Policy&
#The course explores policy writing in its various forms, including: memos, briefs, position papers, op-eds, legislative testimony, formal letters, email, press releases, and social media. This course will feature lectures, interactive discussion, written deliverables, workshops, and guest speakers. As a graduate-level course, students are expected to have thoroughly read all materials prior to class and be prepared to discuss readings in class.#
&PUBPOL 5443 | Systems Thinking for Executives I&
#This course serves as an introduction to systems thinking methods and technical tools that are foundational to all other advanced Executive Master of Public Administration (EMPA) coursework. This course focuses on answering three essential questions: (1) Why does systems thinking exist (i.e., its promise and popularity)? (2) What is systems thinking? (3) How do we do systems thinking? We also explore two subsequent questions: (4) How do we apply systems thinking to personal mastery and professional development? (5) How do we apply systems thinking to the social and policy challenges we face?#
&PUBPOL 5444 | Systems Thinking for Executives II&
#This course explores the functional elements required to design, develop, lead, and manage a complex adaptive organization (CAO) through the lens of Systems Thinking. Students will explore the essential importance of organizational learning and development of culture through shared mental models in order to perform a thorough analysis of mission-critical systems that yield capacity for carrying out coordinated daily tasks that subsequently achieve the vision of the organization.#
&PUBPOL 5470 | Microeconomics for Management and Policy&
#Introduces microeconomic theory and its application to decision making in the management and policy arenas. Places special emphasis on the economic environment of health care organizations and the problems faced by managers in this environment.#
&PUBPOL 5472 | Leveraging Information Technology for Public and Nonprofit Management&
#Information and communications technologies are fundamentally transforming public and nonprofit sectors. This course combines 1) managerial topics: technology acquisition, outsourcing, project management, risk governance, digital strategies; 2) emerging technologies: social media, artificial intelligence, cloud, analytics, big data; 3) real-life cases from global markets; 4) analytical and problem-solving frameworks. This course doesn't require technical background.#
&PUBPOL 5480 | Sustainability Education Policy in the U.S. and Ecuador&
#This course connects Cornell and USFQ students to study Sustainability Education Policy in the U.S. and Ecuador. Focusing on UN SDG 4, the course includes collaborative research, international exchange, and direct engagement with local educators and policymakers to address global education challenges and promote sustainable development.#
&PUBPOL 5560 | Market Design for Public Policy&
#This course introduces students to public policy applications of game theory and market design, including (i) matching algorithms for assignment problems such as school choice, public housing allocation, kidney exchange, refugee resettlement, and labor markets; (ii) auction design for allocation of natural resources, public radio spectrum, emission permits, and government procurement; (iii) platform/exchange design for online markets.#
&PUBPOL 5563 | Managerial Finance&
#This course provides an introduction to business finance through video lectures and assignments. Topics include basic financial accounting, time value of money, stock and bond valuation, capital budgeting, portfolio theory, asset-pricing models, cost of capital, dealing with risk, capital structure, acquisitions, and options. Application of theory to practical applications will be emphasized.#
&PUBPOL 5571 | Corporate Responsibility&
#This graduate-level course provides an overview of the area of corporate responsibility, with particular emphasis on the finance industry. The focus will be on understanding how a growing recognition of the challenge of sustainability affects corporate behavior. Through a combination of classroom presentations, discussion of assigned reading and case studies, and independent research, students will learn about the most important themes at the intersection of business and sustainability, including environmental and social risk management, sustainability initiatives and self-regulation in the corporate sector, stakeholder engagement and management, and the growth of sustainable business, including environmental finance and impact investing.#
&PUBPOL 5573 | Corporate Responsibility for Executives&
#In this course, you will critically examine the sustainability-based interactions between corporate entities, their peers, regulators, the public, and other stakeholders to identify opportunities for improving the outcomes of these interactions. To do this, you will examine how corporate structure affects business practices and how different industries are affected by the sustainability movement. You will then identify how these factors influence a company's motivation to act more sustainably. Next, you will appraise the complex relationships between corporations and their stakeholders and consider the balancing act today's corporate leaders face as they uphold their corporate fiduciary duties and navigate ever-changing sustainability demands. Last, you will assess the impacts of business activities on the environment and pinpoint a company's positive and negative sustainability efforts.#
&PUBPOL 5583 | Managing Operations&
#This course prepares students to think analytically and managerially about operations processes, and to use the tools and intuition they acquire to ensure that the operations in production and service systems support the business strategies for these systems. A process view of operations will be used to analyze different key operational dimensions such as flow time management, service operations management, quality management, inventory management and supply chain management.#
&PUBPOL 5590 | Environmental Justice and Policy&
#Environmental justice, as defined by the U.S. EPA, refers to the fair treatment and meaningful involvement of all individuals—regardless of income, race, color, national origin, Tribal affiliation, or disability—in agency decision-making and federal activities that impact human health and the environment. This principle ensures that all people are protected from disproportionate and adverse effects on their health and environment, including risks related to climate change, cumulative environmental burdens, and the legacy of racism and systemic barriers. It also emphasizes equitable access to a healthy, sustainable, and resilient environment for living, playing, working, learning, growing, worshipping, and engaging in cultural and subsistence practices (U.S. EPA, 2024). This hands-on seminar course explores key topics, policies, and themes in environmental justice, focusing on the disproportionate impacts of climate change and related adaptation and mitigation efforts, particularly on vulnerable groups, communities of color, and Indigenous communities. Additionally, the course examines policy drivers and levers that can create opportunities for meaningful change in the future.#
&PUBPOL 5612 | Intergovernmental Relations&
#Public and private sector professionals interacting with government agencies need a working understanding of the jurisdictional boundaries of government, the interplay between federal, state, and local government, and the rise of nonprofits, regionalism, and public/private partnerships.  This course is designed to enhance upper level undergraduate and graduate students' ability to navigate the complex and ever-evolving US system of government, the delivery of funding and services, and the implementation of statutes and regulations.  This course will provide students with first-hand accounts and analysis of governmental functions and roles, from local boards to state and federal government.#
&PUBPOL 5615 | Sustainable Finance: Southeast Asia and Global Perspectives&
#For description and learning outcomes, see PUBPOL 3615.#
&PUBPOL 5619 | Politics, Policy, and Political Management&
#This course will focus on the political aspects of policy making that increasingly influence policy outcomes. Students pursuing careers in public administration, legislative affairs, and intergovernmental relations will gain a familiarity with concepts and tools for developing political advocacy strategies within the administrative process.#
&PUBPOL 5620 | Health Care Managerial Finance I&
#The purpose of this course is to provide a framework for evaluating how firms should make investment and financing decisions to create value for their shareholders or stakeholders. For most of the course we will focus on profit-maximizing firms, although we will discuss whether and how the investment and financing decisions are different for nonprofit firms that are prevalent in the health care industry. Therefore, this is primarily a course on general corporate finance.
Specifically, we will discuss why the net present value (NPV) of discounted cash flows is the best investment criterion; calculate NPVs; derive appropriate discount rates; estimate the value of bonds, stocks, and options; and determine the optimal amount a firm should borrow. In order to understand how firms make investment and financing decisions, we will also consider how financial markets function and how investors in those markets should make decisions.#
&PUBPOL 5650 | Social Care Navigation to Advance Health Equity&
#For description and learning outcomes, see PUBPOL 3650.#
&PUBPOL 5658 | Fixing the Future: Policy Solutions for Development Dilemmas&
#This course will address dilemmas or contradictions impeding progress toward achieving sustainable and equitable development goals. Discussions will revolve around six "wicked" development dilemmas and will provide students with the tools required to develop options for governments seeking to avoid systemic problems on their paths toward sustainability. These development dilemmas include the value vs. wealth proposition, eliminating poverty in the context of resource intensity, cleaner production, governance with common values, the role of government in sustainability, and the capacity of intergovernmental systems.#
&PUBPOL 5670 | Health Policy&
#Addresses major health policy issues and the critical processes that influence them. Focuses primarily on the United States, with some coverage of health policy in other countries. Topics include Medicare, Medicaid, the uninsured, public health, the effect of welfare policy on health care, managed care development and regulation, state and federal health care reform, and many others. The course analyzes the politics of health policy in terms of legislative and executive processes; the forces involved including economic, social, ethical, and political factors; and key players in health policy, such as special interest groups, public agencies, and elected officials.#
&PUBPOL 5679 | Desktop and Modeling Solutions&
#This course presents an advanced approach to data-intensive problem-solving using Microsoft Excel. Advanced concepts such as external queries, data tables, arrays, iterative techniques and macros will be reviewed. These will then be incorporated into an integrated business model. Emphasis will be on clear, separated input and output, data integrity, user interface design, documentation, maintainability, robustness and user support.#
&PUBPOL 5713 | Leadership, Innovation and Change Management&
#This course will take on two major topics: organizational culture and identifying and aligning products, services, and strategies throughout a health care organization. The course will equip students with the proper tools to lead innovation and change within a health care organization. Topics will include culture, business analysis models such as BCG matrix, SWOT analysis, porters five forces, and strategic plans.#
&PUBPOL 5730 | Comparative Environmental Policy&
#This course focuses on environmental legislation such as the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA), the Clean Air Act (CAA), the Clean Water Act (CWA), and others as a foundation for US environmental policy. Internationally, focus on Environmental Policy in multiple countries and comparative to US environmental policy. Over the course we will discuss how environmental policy directly impacts community, public health, natural ecological systems, concepts of justice, and socioeconomics. We will explore these major environmental policies in the US as a basis of comparison and then apply those mechanism domestically or internationally to address climate change and improve other environment conditions. Students who seek to work in the US will build an analytic skill set to be competitive for jobs in environmental consulting, government, public policy, public health, non-profits, and advocacy groups.#
&PUBPOL 5734 | Disasters, Vulnerability, and Resilience&
#This hands-on graduate-level course addresses key topics and themes using vulnerability assessment and resilience planning. The focus is on developing innovative policy solutions to prepare for, adapt to, and mitigate natural and manmade disasters. The goal is to invest in building resilience and adaptive capacity of vulnerable communities. This course is for anyone who will be in a leadership role who wants to build a toolkit to manage and prepare for a range of crises including natural, manmade, social, and resource-related disasters. Students will discuss the lessons learned from academic research, government reports, case studies, and past experiences to develop effective management strategy.#
&PUBPOL 5750 | Causal Analysis and Impact Evaluation in Public Policy&
#Second semester of a two-semester sequence in applied statistics for Public Policy. Review of key material (regression analysis, and statistical inference for regression). Advanced topics in regression analysis such as: interaction terms, log transformations, binary independent and dependent variables. Introduction to research design for causal analysis, including: experiments, Differences-in-Differences, and Regression Discontinuity.#
&PUBPOL 5755 | Infrastructure Financing&
#This course is designed for graduate students considering a career in the public sector in budgeting and debt management, a career in planning, implementing and operating public infrastructure (including transportation, water and sewer, power, education, etc.) or a career in capital markets. At the completion of the course students will have a strong working knowledge of key principles and techniques of public finance and a familiarity with finance instruments.#
&PUBPOL 5770 | Health Care and Services Marketing&
#This course provides an introduction to health care services marketing and the role of essential tools and functions of marketing for creating, communicating and delivering value for patients, the community, the organization, and stakeholders. The course explores the history, perspectives, concepts, processes, and roles of marketing within the healthcare industry. The growing importance of social media for communicating the organization's brand, mission, values and vision is covered as is the emergence of value-based reimbursement, population health management, telehealth, community benefit, health equity, transparency, rise of consumerism, and data security. The course will focus on selected marketing themes including services versus product marketing, segmentation, pricing, target marketing, customer experience, branding, and more.#
&PUBPOL 5780 | Artificial Intelligence and Public Sector Decision Making&
#Artificial intelligence (AI) has been playing increasingly prominent roles in today's public and private sectors. The recent rise of ChatGPT and other generative AI applications, in particular, has accelerated the adoption of AI among individuals, institutions, industries, communities, and societies. As a technology dating back decades, AI is complex, multifaceted, and dynamic, involving different techniques, categories, philosophies, use cases, and varied value and risks. Developing and maintaining an in-depth, nuanced, and up-to-date understanding of AI, related concepts enabling the emergence of AI including big data and digital platforms, and the best practices and lessons learned during the design, implementation, and use of these technologies in diverse contexts is critical to public policy. Such knowledge enables today's and tomorrow's practitioners and policymakers to design roadmaps, frameworks, strategies, artifacts, services, processes and policies to contribute to prosperity, sustainability, equity and inclusion worldwide.#
&PUBPOL 5813 | Disruptive Innovation in Health Care I&
#What will US health care look like in five years? Who will gain or lose influence in the battle for value and market position? While the debate rages on how to improve US health care, major players are jockeying to reinvent US health care as we know it. In this 1.5 credit course the instructor applies research in disruptive innovation to health care, drawing from interviews with venture capitalists, health system innovation leaders, start-ups, and Big tech.#
&PUBPOL 5860 | Women in Leadership and Entrepreneurship in Developing Country Contexts&
#This course investigates the evolution of discourses surrounding gender and development, focusing on how women have gained economic independence, agency, and socio-economic mobility in developing country contexts and have thus emerged as successful entrepreneurs and leaders in their respective eco-systems. It examines how certain socio-economic factors have lifted women out of poverty, exclusion, and marginalization. By exploring both individual potential and collective power through dedicated activism, the course spans the fields of economics, sociology, and public policy.#
&PUBPOL 5870 | Economic Evaluations in Health Care&
#This course covers economic evaluation methods used for decisions in the health care sector and health policy. Economic evaluations include cost analysis, cost-benefit analysis, cost-effectiveness analysis, and cost-utility analysis. The course discusses how to measure opportunity costs, monetary benefits, and health outcomes such as quality-adjusted life years. Actual economic evaluations of pharmaceuticals, health care and public health interventions, and health and safety policy are reviewed and critiqued.#
&PUBPOL 5900 | Special Topics in Health Administration and Finance&
#A special topics course specifically designed for students in the Sloan Program in Health Administration. Possible multiple offerings using adjunct faculty teaching in areas of expertise not covered in depth in the Sloan core curriculum and relevant to students preparing for careers in health management. Format ranges from intensive courses offered over several full days to longer courses meeting on a weekly basis. Each section represents a separate stand-alone course occurring over the dates indicated.#
&PUBPOL 5903 | Quality Improvement for Managers&
#The course introduces students to the predominant roles that Clinical Outcomes, Patient Safety, and Patient Satisfaction have in the health care industry and their growing impact on reimbursement.  The focus of the course is to provide students with the abilities to lead collaborative efforts between physicians, front-line clinical staff, and hospital operations personnel in efforts that maximize quality, safety, and service for patients.#
&PUBPOL 5910 | Master of Public Administration (MPA) Capstone&
#Provides 2nd year MPA students with opportunities to practice skills they've learned in their coursework and professional experiences to address policy or management problems for real-world clients in government or nonprofit agencies in the US. MPA students may use the reports produced in this course to meet the MPA professional writing requirement.#
&PUBPOL 5920 | Public Affairs Externships&
#Combines a professional public affairs externship in a metropolitan area with academic study to provide experience and understanding of the planner's role in formulating and implementing plans and policies. Externships are available in international organizations, federal, state, and local government agencies, legislative offices, and comparable settings include development of research, analysis, and other technical skills.  Weekly seminars draw on student field experiences, assigned readings, and guest speakers to examine current issues of federal, urban, and regional policy from the perspective of public affairs practice.#
&PUBPOL 5950 | Executive Master of Public Administration Capstone&
#Field Studies are the Capstone for Brooks School Executive Master of Public Administration (EMPA) students. The course is designed to act as an integrative experience combining the competencies and knowledge gained during the student's time in the EMPA Program and the experiences gained in employment. The field study allows students to work on a long-term project within their organization that has been identified as relevant to the coursework and important to the organization.#
&PUBPOL 5952 | Field Study in Health Administration and Planning&
#Students interested in developing administrative and program-planning research skills are given an opportunity to evaluate an ongoing phase of health care agency activity in the light of sound administrative practice and principles of good medical care. In planning and carrying out the research, students work closely with a skilled practicing administrator and with members of the faculty.#
&PUBPOL 5953 | Health Managers Practicum&
#The course is the first half of the integrative capstone experience combining the competencies and knowledge gained during the first three semesters of the students' time at Sloan and the experiences gained in employment. In part 1 of this course, students work with their managers, capstone faculty, and Executives-In-Residence to identify a performance improvement project, strategy implementation project, or business development project that is of high importance to their organization. Students define the problem, research best practices, and trial solutions. Students present their preliminary findings and how they applied their coursework to their field study while on campus.#
&PUBPOL 5959 | Systems Thinking, Mapping, and Leadership Practicum II&
#This course is a real-world immersion experience into the kind of work Fellows will undertake. Dealing with wicked and non-trivial problems in large and complex systems where the "client" may or may not be ambiguous, the work may or may not be "contracted" and the product may or may not be "welcomed." Deliverables for the course include a single, team-based Professional Report and a Professional Presentation. These products will summarize the results of the STML Fellows research and propose a framework for clients to understand and act upon the problem using systems thinking and leadership methods. The report relies heavily on a review of the literature on the topic, Fellows' discussions and interviews with experts in the field, and their own original analysis.#
&PUBPOL 5961 | State Policy and Advocacy Clinic II&
#As a continuation of our work in PUBPOL 4960/PUBPOL 5960, we will learn how to design and advocate for specific state-level public policies by practicing these skills with community partners and stakeholders and before the legislative and administrative branches of the State of New York. In consultation with the professor, student teams will design and advocate for public policy proposals based on a review of the academic, governmental and think tank literature; conversations with subject matter experts at Cornell and various NGOs; research and analysis of similar proposals in other states and countries; conversations with state and local policymakers; and discussions with community members and organizations, including community partners with lived experience. Although we will engage in policy design and advocacy primarily in New York State, we will also provide research and policy design services to Stakeholderrs in other states, especially when a comparative or multi-state approach offers strategic benefits.#
&PUBPOL 5990 | Challenges and Trends in the Health Services Industry&
#Provides students with information and exposure to current and emerging issues in the health services industry. Topics may include financial management of health care facilities, human resource management, information systems, cost-effective clinical decision making, quality measurement and outcomes, public health, and entrepreneurship in the health services industry.#
&PUBPOL 6000 | Special Problems for Graduate Students&
#Independent advanced study by graduate students recommended by their chair or advisor and approved by the program director and the instructor.#
&PUBPOL 6020 | Intermediate Statistics for Sociological Research&
#This course provides the second part of a two-semester introduction to quantitative methods in sociological research. It is designed for first-year graduate students in sociology. The course covers intermediate topics in linear regression, and provides an introduction to models for categorical and count data, the analysis of time data, and longitudinal data. We'll also discuss data-related issues such as missing data and weighting, and data that are complicated by issues of non-random design. While statistical modeling is the focus of the course, we proceed with the assumption that models are only as good as the theoretical and substantive knowledge behind them. Thus, in covering the technical material, we will spend considerable time discussing the link between substantive knowledge and statistical practice.#
&PUBPOL 6050 | Social Demography&
#The objective of this course is to provide a conceptual overview and technical "tool-kit" for studying population issues and public policies. What is a demographic perspective?  And how can it be applied usefully to important domestic and international policy issues of the day (e.g., housing segregation, health and retirement, labor mobility and immigration, and above- and below-replacement fertility, school projections, etc.). The course will introduce students to various demographic data sources (e.g., decennial census and periodic fertility surveys), conventional measures (e.g., fertility rates and measures of poverty/inequality), and conventional demographic techniques (e.g., life tables, rate standardization, and population forecasting) used in social demography.  For the most part, the course places the emphasis on the appropriate application of demographic tools and on scientifically-sound interpretations.#
&PUBPOL 6091 | Empirical Strategies for Policy Research II&
#This course is the second of a two-course sequence. Both PUBPOL 6090 and this course are, for the most part, targeted at students looking to do empirical research into the effects of some X on some Y. Both courses require students to complete problem sets that involve "hands-on" exercises – some based on real data and some using Monte Carlo simulations. The hope is that this "learning by doing" will reinforce what is taught in class. Usually, the first course covers core methods, specifically regression adjustment, matching and instrumental variables. This second course covers additional topics in matching (we will touch on machine learning methods in the process), regression discontinuity designs, panel data methods, and mediation analysis.#
&PUBPOL 6810 | Demography Training Seminar&
#CPC's weekly training seminar provides training and professional development to graduate students in demography and serves as a requirement for the graduate demography minor. Includes workshops and presentations of completed papers and work in progress by faculty members, advanced graduate students, and external speakers.#
&PUBPOL 6950 | Spatial Demography&
#"Spatial Demography" introduces core concepts and techniques for analyzing spatially referenced population data. Students learn about the spatial structure of social phenomenon and how to analyze and account for spatial relationships in formal analyses. We draw from examples in housing, health, and education to evaluate how populations are spatially distributed. The course covers methods for addressing spatial dependence and heterogeneity, as well as tools for describing spatial relationships (including various indices of segregation). A substantial portion of the course is also dedicated to practical skills for managing and presenting spatial data using GIS software, including geographic projections, geoprocessing, geocoding addresses, spatially joining layered data, and distance buffering.#
&PUBPOL 8990 | Master's Thesis and Research&
#Students conduct independent master's thesis research under the supervision of a public policy faculty member.#
&PUBPOL 9990 | Doctoral Thesis and Research&
#Students conduct independent doctoral thesis research under the supervision of a public policy faculty member.#


$PUNJB | Punjabi$
&PUNJB 1122 | Elementary Punjabi II&
#This course introduces students to Punjabi, a major language of northern India and Pakistan. Beginning with the study of the Gurmukhi script, the course offers an intensive study of the speaking, reading, and writing of the language. This is approached through the theme-based syllabus, a discussion in small groups and paired activities on the cultural background of Punjab and Punjabi culture.#
&PUNJB 2202 | Intermediate Punjabi II&
#Further develops students' skills in Punjabi, a major language of northern India and Pakistan. Continuing with the study of the Gurmukhi script, the course offers an intensive study of the speaking, reading, and writing of the language. This is approached through the theme-based syllabus, a discussion in small groups and paired activities on the cultural background of Punjab and Punjabi culture.#


$QUECH | Quechua$
&QUECH 1220 | Elementary Quechua II&
#1210-1220 is an introductory sequence that allows students to develop basic fluency in Quechua, the most widely spoken indigenous language in the Americas. Students learn elements of Quechua's phonetics, vocabulary, morphology and syntax through an interactive approach and gain awareness of regional and dialectal differences. The course focuses on oral and written skills, with emphasis on tasks based on familiar contexts of use. It also introduces learners to the history, culture and geography of the Andes through exposure to cultural practices, proverbs, folklore, and artefacts of the region (e.g. textiles). Students will reflect on Quechua as an endangered language and on the significance of keeping this very popular indigenous language of Latin America alive.#


$REAL | Real Estate$
&REAL 5320 | Real Estate Development Process I&
#Examination of various forms of development as well as the role of major participants in the processes. Reviews issues in residential, retail, industrial, office, and low-income housing projects. This course is a prerequisite for CRP 5321.#
&REAL 5321 | Real Estate Development Process II&
#Examination of various forms of development, as well as the role of the major participants by a review of case studies of residential, retail, industrial, office, and low-income housing projects.#
&REAL 5370 | Real Estate Seminar Series&
#Designed to bring students weekly into direct contact with real-estate professionals mainly through the use of videoconferences originating from locations around the world.#
&REAL 5590 | Land Use Law&
#This course will evaluate the means—formal/legal and informal/non-legal—by which landowners, developers, architects, planners, neighbors, private organizations, and government may shape the use of land in the United States.  Close attention will be paid to:  the tension between regulation and landowners' rights; aesthetic controls and historic preservation; planning concepts; constitutional issues; environmental concerns; and the role of markets.#
&REAL 6205 | Real Estate Financial Modeling&
#This course covers the basic financial models and frameworks used throughout the real estate industry today. In this introductory course, students will focus exclusively on a rigorous cash flow construction and scenario analysis to include the impact of deterministic inputs in ex-ante decision making. The course covers extensively the modeling of simple lease structures (for different property types), conventional and exotic debt instruments and simple equity waterfalls.#
&REAL 6230 | Real Estate Statistical Modeling&
#This course provides students with education in the use of statistical methods applied to real estate property and market data for the purpose of making informed decisions about allocations of resources to real estate. Both elementary and advanced statistical methods are covered in the course and students receive training in the statistical functions of Excel, STATA, and @RISK. Also, students gain exposure to the expanding number of real estate data bases offered by vendors. An important component of the course is the series of required assignments that involve finding answers to specific questions encountered in practice that can be best answered with statistical analysis of relevant data. Building statistics-based forecasting and valuation models is essential for completing the course assignments.#
&REAL 6430 | Affordable Housing Policy and Programs&
#Overview of federal, state, and local policies and programs to deliver affordable housing to low-income people; public housing, vouchers, inclusionary zoning, rent control, and much more. Lectures, debates, short papers, and term paper.#
&REAL 6560 | Real Estate Transactions and Deal Structuring&
#Real estate transactions and deal structuring examines real estate deals through a practitioner perspective within a case study and transactional approach. The course looks at the transactional components and structuring of real estate deals and related parties at each step in creating value from real estate, including acquisition and assemblage; due diligence; sourcing and financing; structuring the venture/parties; operation; disposition; and tax consequences. Additional issues within deal structuring that may be included are negotiation, managing risk including litigation and environmental issues, analysis of financing techniques, and consequences when deals go bad, including work out and bankruptcy. The case study format will address deals from the perspectives of investment fund manager, banker/lender, developer, REIT, joint venture partner/investor, and owner.#
&REAL 6565 | International Cases and Contracts&
#This course investigates real estate transactions that originate outside the United States and may be in a foreign country, in which the motivations for deals and transactions are outside the norm.  These include informal financing techniques; deal structuring with several local and foreign constituents; the limitations of contracts; and bankruptcy, in Europe, the Middle East, East Asia, South Asia, and Africa.#
&REAL 6595 | Special Topics in Real Estate&
#This course addresses pertinent issues relative to real estate.  Topics vary each semester.#
&REAL 6597 | Real Estate Competitions II: ULI Hines&
#The ULI Hines Competition challenges students to collaborate across disciplines and imagine a better built environment. Groups of five students form teams to devise a development program for a real site in a North American city, providing designs, market-based financial data, and related narratives.#
&REAL 6990 | Graduate Real Estate Independent Study&
#Independent study project as agreed to by instructor and student.#
&REAL 7010 | Urban and Real Estate Economics&
#This course explores links between urbanization and real estate markets. High downtown rents reflect the benefits of proximity to other companies and natural features like port facilities. High housing costs reflect proximity to jobs and the lure of urban amenities. At the same time, segregation and congestion are often exacerbated by urbanization, the costs of which are seen in inequality, crime, pollution, and traffic jams. Urban real estate markets are also affected by local government policy, including enforcement of property rights, zoning, tax and subsidy programs. Shrinking rust belt cities and work from home threaten to undermine urban real estate markets, while volatility and uncertainty contributes to mispricing. These and related ideas will be explored drawing on context from countries around the world.#


$RELST | Religious Studies$
&RELST 2204 | Introduction to Quranic Arabic&
#This course is designed for students who are interested in reading the language of the Qur'an with accuracy and understanding. The first week (4 classes) will be devoted to an introduction of the history of the Qur'an: the revelation, collection, variant readings, and establishment of an authoritative edition. The last week will be devoted to a general overview of "revisionist" literature on the Qur'an. In the remaining 12 weeks, we will cover all of Part 30 (Juz' 'Amma, suuras 78-114) and three suuras of varying length (36, 19, and 12).#
&RELST 2248 | Buddhists in Indian Ocean World: Past & Present&
#For millennia, Buddhist monks, merchants, pilgrims, diplomats, and adventurers have moved around the Indian Ocean arena circulating Buddhist teachings and powerful objects. In doing so they helped create Buddhist communities in the places we now refer to as southern China, India, Sri Lanka, and Southeast Asia. The course explores these circulatory histories by focusing on case studies in each of four historical periods: premodern (esp. early second millennium A.D.); the era of 19th-century colonial projects; mid-20th-century nation-state formation in South and Southeast Asia; and contemporary (early 21st century) times. Drawing together materials from Indian Ocean studies, Buddhist studies, and critical studies of colonialism, modernity, and nation-state formation, this course attends to the ways in which changing trans-regional conditions shape local Buddhisms, how Buddhist collectives around the Indian Ocean arena shape one another, and how trade, religion, and politics interact.#
&RELST 2250 | Introduction to Asian Religions&
#This course will explore religious traditions in South Asia (Pakistan, India, and Sri Lanka) and East Asia (China, Japan, and Korea) including Hinduism, Buddhism (South Asian and East Asian), Sikhism, Confucianism, Daoism, and Shintō. We will also encounter a wide range of religious expressions, including myth, ritual, pilgrimage, mysticism, meditation, and other spiritual technologies.#
&RELST 2322 | Black Religion and Pop Culture&
#This course uses art and popular culture to provide a dynamic view of Black religion in the United States and the Diaspora throughout the twentieth and twenty-first centuries. Discussion topics include: religiosity in the visual art of Kara Walker, P-Valley's Hoodoo representation, and James Baldwin's Black Sanctified aesthetics. By engaging broadly with visual art, film, music, and television, students will gain a sense of the various religious and spiritual traditions that pervade contemporary popular culture and gain the ability to think critically about how religious themes show up on television, in music, and in the world around them.#
&RELST 2546 | South Asian Religions in Practice: The Healing Traditions&
#This course offers an anthropological approach to the study of religious traditions and practices in South Asia: India, Pakistan, Sri Lanka, and Nepal. The course begins with a short survey of the major religious traditions of South Asia: Hinduism, Buddhism, Jainism, Sikhism, and Islam. We look to the development of these traditions through historical and cultural perspectives. The course then turns to the modern period, considering the impact of colonialism, nationalism, and globalization upon religious ideologies and practices. The primary focus of the course will be the ethnographic study of contemporary religious practices in the region. We examine phenomena such as ritual, pilgrimage, possession, devotionalism, monasticism, asceticism, and revivalism through a series of ethnographic case studies. In so doing, we also seek to understand the impact of politics, modernity, diasporic movement, social inequality, changing gender roles, and mass mediation upon these traditions and practices.#
&RELST 2555 | Sex and Sexuality in Islam&
#This course will introduce students to the study of sex and sexuality in the medieval and early modern Islamic World, ending at the dawn of the twentieth century; we will begin with the study of desire in pre-Islamic and early-Islamic poetry and end with the study of the impact of colonialism on the family, the home and morality across the Islamic world. Students will read (in English) from the Qur'an, the sayings of the Prophet Muhammad, obscene and chaste poetry, erotological works, medical treatises, moral condemnations of sex, legal case studies, erotic stories and travel literature. Students will also engage with modern scholarship on the history of sex and sexuality in the Islamic world. Major topics of study will include: the composition of the family across time and space, the intersection between slavery and sexuality, homosexuality and homoerotic desire in the premodern world, marriage and adultery, questions of consent and sexual violence in law and storytelling, and the discrepancies between law, morality and social practice.#
&RELST 2630 | Religion and Reason&
#What must (or could) God be like, and what reasons do we have for thinking that a being of that sort actually exists? What difference would (or could) the existence of God make to our lives? Religion & Reason examines the idea, shared by several major world religions, that God must be an absolutely perfect being. What attributes must a perfect being have: must it have a mind, be a person, care for human beings? Is the concept of a perfect being coherent? Is the existence of a perfect being compatible with the presence of evil in the world, the existence of human freedom, the nature of the world as modern science understands it? Does what is morally right and wrong depend in any important way on the nature or will of a perfect being? Is a perfect being among the things that actually inhabit our universe? The course approaches these questions with the tools and methods of philosophical reason and through readings drawn from both classic texts and contemporary philosophical discussion.#
&RELST 2644 | Introduction to Judaism&
#This course is an introduction to Jewish identities, values, and practices from the ancient to modern era. Organized thematically, it examines Judaism as a religious phenomenon, with a particular emphasis on its cultural and textual diversity across three millennia. Themes covered include creation, Sabbath, prayer, Jerusalem, pious customs, magic, reincarnation, revelation, among others. Throughout the semester students perform close readings of a wide selection of Jewish texts from the Bible, Talmud, kabbalah (mysticism), philosophy, liturgy, and modern Jewish thought. In what ways are these various traditions of Judaism interrelated and/or in tension with one another? In the face of the Jewish history's tremendous diversity, what is it that has unified Judaism and the Jewish people over the centuries? By exploring these types of questions, this course examines the appropriateness of defining Judaism as a religion, an ethnicity, a civilization, and/or a culture. Readings include introductory-level textbooks and essays, as well as a range of primary source materials in translation.#
&RELST 2656 | Anti-Judaism and Anti-Semitism in Historical Perspective&
#Why is it that the age of emancipation which saw most of the world's Jews gain citizenship status and achieve unprecedented levels of socio-economic modernization, also witnessed a catastrophic assault on Jewish life? How do we explain the conjunction between the spread of liberal values and the exponential rise of anti-semitism? Most historians refer to the virulence of racism in accounting for the scale and brutality of anti-Jewish rhetoric which prepared the way for the destruction of European Jewry in the twentieth century. But this explanation fails to account for the fact that progressive democratic discourse which explicitly endorses ethnic diversity and emphatically repudiates racial prejudice remains susceptible to anti-Jewish animus even now. In this class, we will examine the complex relationship between emancipation and anti-semitism from the perspective of those who benefited from the former but had to contend with the reality of the latter – Europe's rising class of Jewish intellectuals. We will discover that their insights into the problem of modern Jew-hatred were both acute and prescient and have much to teach us about the current Jewish predicament.#
&RELST 2722 | Of Saints, Poets, and Revolutionaries: Medieval and Modern Iran and Central Asia&
#From the poet-kings of medieval Persia to the trading networks of the famed "Silk Road" to the wandering mystics of Herat to the constitutional revolution of Iran to the colonial and post-colonial occupations of contemporary Afghanistan, this course offers a broad cultural and political history of Iranian and Turkic Central Asia.  In addition, we will explore the highly complex intellectual, artistic, and architectural trends and "cross-cultural" exchanges that formed the backbone of many disparate Iranian-Turkic cultures.#
&RELST 3281 | The Bible as Literature&
#A knowledge of the Bible's images, stories and themes is crucial to understanding not only the art and literature of many cultures, but also ancient and contemporary world politics. It is the world's most widely read book and a sacred text of three great religions: Judaism, Islam and Christianity. This course will offer students an introduction to the Bible's major historical, anthropological and literary contexts. Students will learn about the Bible's literary divisions and its main stories and characters as well as its ideas about faith, salvation, history and the end of time. We will use the New Oxford Annotated Bible for all course work.#
&RELST 3341 | Mahayana Buddhism&
#This course will explore the origins and early developments of a movement in Indian Buddhism known as the Great Vehicle. We will intensively examine a small slice of this movement's voluminous literature so as to better understand its call for a new spiritual orientation within Buddhism. Topics of discussion will include the career of the bodhisattva, the lay/monk distinction, attitudes of Mahayanists toward women and other Buddhists, and the development of Buddhist utopias and transcendent buddhas.#
&RELST 3422 | Gospel and The Blues: A Black Women’s History II, 1973-2023&
#In her pathbreaking text Wayward Lives, Beautiful Experiments: Intimate Histories of Social Upheaval Saidiya Hartman writes that "young Black women were radical thinkers who tirelessly imagined other ways to live and never failed to consider how the world might be otherwise." This two-semester course endeavors to travel through those worlds using the cultural and musical forms of gospel and the blues as our compass. The second semester is guided by the work of scholars and writers like Maureen Mahon, Marla Frederick, Lynée Denise, and Deesha Philyaw and artists like the Clark Sisters, Aretha Franklin, Toni Braxton, and Beyoncé. Together we will interrogate the spectrum of lived experiences making for a kaleidoscopic sonic history of joy, pleasure, sorrow, resistance, and everything in between.#
&RELST 3448 | Islamic Mysticism: Life, Love, and History&
#Sufism, popularly understood as Islamic mysticism, is a loose name given to a broad and diverse collection of beliefs, practices and groups that range and vary across time and space. Going from a small and largely secretive group of mystical practitioners to a mainstream form of piety in the late medieval period, Sufism has a fascinating history, filled with intrigue, controversy, conflict and interesting characters. In this course, students will delve deep into the history of Sufism and read widely from across the Sufi and anti-Sufi traditions. Concentration will be given to practical questions of how Sufis saw themselves and their relationship to God and the world, how they built mystic community, spurned or embraced family life, interacted with mainstream society, and engaged in controversial erotic practices. Across the course, we will read Sufi histories and biographies, poetry, introductory treatises, as well as anti-Sufi polemics and stories.#
&RELST 3523 | Antisemitism, Islamophobia, Racism&
#Islamophobia and Judeophobia are ideas and like all ideas they have a history of their own. Although today many might think of Islamophobia or Judeophobia as unchangeable—fear of and hatred for Islam and Muslims or Judaism and Jews—these ideas and the social and political practices informed by them have varied greatly over time and place. They even intersected during the Middle Age and in Ottoman times when "the Jew" was frequently represented as allied with "The Muslim". The first part of this course traces the history, trajectory, and political agency of Judeophobia and Islamophobia in texts and other forms of culture from late antiquity through the present. The second part of the course is devoted to modernity and the present especially in Europe and the United States focusing on representational practices—how Muslims/Islam and Jews/Judaism are portrayed in various discourses including the media, film and on the internet. We will investigate how these figures (the Muslim, the Jew) serve as a prism through which we can understand various social, political and cultural processes and the interests of those who produce and consume them.#
&RELST 3530 | A Mediterranean Society and Its Culture&
#This course examines the cultural and historical interaction of Muslims and Jews from the emergence of Islam in the seventh century through the classical age of Islam down to the turn of the thirteenth century. The intersection of the two cultures (scriptural, spiritual, intellectual, literary, communal, and interpersonal) and members of their respective religious communities will be studied through readings of primary texts (in translation). The course will conclude with some brief reflections on historical memory and the modern and contemporary significance of the two religious communities' interactions during the classical age of Islam.#
&RELST 3540 | On Paying Attention&
#In the age of smartphones and social media, it's a cliché to say that the competing claims made on our attention only seem to be multiplying. But a cliché can be true. This course is an opportunity to enact certain practices of attentiveness and concentration, drawing largely from religious, literary, artistic, philosophical sources. We'll be trying to slow down our normal critical processes, to suspend the appropriative, pragmatic, and goal-oriented nature of much of the modern university. Through various exercises, from memorizing poems to immersing ourselves in our surroundings to reading about the ways in which our senses reach out to the world, we'll try to make ourselves more attentively available to that world.#
&RELST 3550 | Origins of Monotheism&
#The Purpose of this course is to trace the development of Monotheism from its origins in Israelite/Canaanite polytheism. We will examine worship of the God, Yahweh and other deities in ancient Israel, and will trace the long and complicated process by which Yahweh became the sole deity to be formally accepted within Judaism. Using biblical evidence as well as inscriptional and archaeological evidence from Israel and elsewhere in the ancient Near East, we will address the question of why the Israelites eventually rejected deities such as Baal, Asherah, El and others, and how imagery associated with these deities informs biblical descriptions of Yahweh. We will explore the ways in which a small group of Jerusalem elites helped shape the monotheistic tradition that has been inherited in the West, and will consider the political, social and theological implications of this transformation.#
&RELST 3588 | Archaeology and the Bible&
#The purpose of the course is to place the Bible within the context of a larger ancient world that can be explored by systematic excavation of physical remains. Students will become familiar with archaeological excavations and finds from ancient Syria-Palestine from 10,000 bce to 586 bce. We will explore this archaeological evidence on its own terms, taking into consideration factors such as archaeological method and the interpretive frameworks in which the excavators themselves work, as well as the implications of this body of evidence for understanding the complexity and diversity of biblical Israel.#
&RELST 4020 | Buddhist Moderns: Visions of Human Flourishing&
#Do modern times (which are experienced and conceptualized in varied ways) pose distinctive problems and opportunities for Buddhists? How are Buddhist teachings drawn into forms of social and political critique, activist and advocacy projects, and theorizing about human communities and social processes? In the 20th and 21st centuries, how do Buddhist teachings and practices inform practical and conceptual approaches to human flourishing? Drawing on thinkers from several parts of Asia and the Americas, this seminar highlights how persons work creatively with Buddhist teachings. We shall explore how Buddhist teachings are interpreted to address painful circumstances, as well as how such hermeneutics may offer new (and sometimes liberatory) ways of seeing selves, others, and communities.  Writers and artists considered in this seminar interpret Buddhist teachings and practices in relation to capitalism, race, gender, sexuality, environmental ethics, and nationalism.#
&RELST 4110 | Religion and Social Life&
#Global conflicts, raising children, electing presidents, praying for a loved one: from the mundane to the extraordinary, religion plays a significant role in social life, regardless of whether or not one considers oneself "religious." In this course we will investigate religion and its impacts in society from a sociological perspective. Questions we will ask include: How does religion "fit" into society? What are the contours of contemporary religion in the United States and around the world? How do religious identities interact with other aspects of social life, including gender, race and politics? In what ways have religions and religious life changed over time? As social scientists, how can we best study religion? The course will use examples from a variety of religious and secular traditions to help us understand religion's sociological significance in the contemporary world.#
&RELST 4414 | Topics in South Asian Culture and Literature&
#Topics will address South Asian culture and literature and change in relation to curricular needs within the Department of Asian Studies.#
&RELST 4991 | Directed Study&
#For undergraduates who wish to obtain research experience or do extensive reading on a special topic. Students select a topic in consultation with the faculty member who has agreed to supervise the course.#
&RELST 4995 | Senior Honors Essay I&
#RELST 4995 is the first course in the Honors two-part sequence. The Honors Program is open to Religious Studies majors who have done superior work and who wish to devote a substantial part of their senior year to advanced, specialized, independent research and writing of a thesis. Successfully completing an honors thesis will require sustained interest, exceptional ability, diligence, and enthusiasm. While admissions to the Honors Program and completion of a thesis do not guarantee that students will be awarded honors in Religious Studies, most students find the experience as intellectually rewarding as it is rigorous.#
&RELST 4996 | Senior Honors Essay II&
#RELST 4996 is the second course in the Honors two-part sequence. The Honors Program is open to Religious Studies majors who have done superior work and who wish to devote a substantial part of their senior year to advanced, specialized, independent research and writing of a thesis. Successfully completing an honors thesis will require sustained interest, exceptional ability, diligence, and enthusiasm. While admissions to the Honors Program and completion of a thesis do not guarantee that students will be awarded honors in Religious Studies, most students find the experience as intellectually rewarding as it is rigorous.#
&RELST 6020 | Latin Philosophical Texts&
#Reading and translation of Latin philosophical texts.#
&RELST 6022 | Buddhist Moderns: Visions of Human Flourishing&
#Do modern times (which are experienced and conceptualized in varied ways) pose distinctive problems and opportunities for Buddhists? How are Buddhist teachings drawn into forms of social and political critique, activist and advocacy projects, and theorizing about human communities and social processes? In the 20th and 21st centuries, how do Buddhist teachings and practices inform practical and conceptual approaches to human flourishing? Drawing on thinkers from several parts of Asia and the Americas, this seminar highlights how persons work creatively with Buddhist teachings. We shall explore how Buddhist teachings are interpreted to address painful circumstances, as well as how such hermeneutics may offer new (and sometimes liberatory) ways of seeing selves, others, and communities.  Writers and artists considered in this seminar interpret Buddhist teachings and practices in relation to capitalism, race, gender, sexuality, environmental ethics, and nationalism.#
&RELST 6210 | Topics in Medieval Philosophy&
#Graduate seminar covering a topic in medieval philosophy. Spring 2025 Topics include: Augustine; Philosophy in the Islamic World (800-1400).#
&RELST 6310 | Methods in Medieval&
#Topic: Writing Through the Forest in Search of Trees. Hello, Humanities Student! Are you a plotter or a pantser? Not sure? Come and join us to find out, and to gain valuable insight into what kind of a writer you are, and how to manage that writer most effectively and productively. This theme-centered methods seminar, through a communal focus on trees, woods, glens, and copses in the pre-modern world, will hone in on the most indispensable tool in the humanist's belt: writing. From the generation of ideas, to their organization into an outline (or a blueprint, or whatever euphemism we, as a group or as individuals, decide to apply to the initial, tangled pile of yarn) to the first draft. Followed by frank and constructive criticism of the initial draft as a group and in pairs, and then on to the part that all students—really, all humanists…okay, all writers—find to be the greatest struggle: "Your paper has some good ideas, but it really needs a rewrite." Now what do you do? As we write, and rewrite, we will also read widely. In addition to primary sources, scholarly articles and essays, we will include criticism, personal essay, theory, excerpts from fiction, and more, in an effort to open students' writing up to a myriad of possibilities for persuasive and compelling written communication.#
&RELST 6330 | A Mediterranean Society and Its Culture&
#This course examines the cultural and historical interaction of Muslims and Jews from the emergence of Islam in the seventh century through the classical age of Islam down to the turn of the thirteenth century. The intersection of the two cultures (scriptural, spiritual, intellectual, literary, communal, and interpersonal) and members of their respective religious communities will be studied through readings of primary texts (in translation). The course will conclude with some brief reflections on historical memory and the modern and contemporary significance of the two religious communities' interactions during the classical age of Islam.#
&RELST 6422 | Gospel and The Blues: A Black Women’s History II, 1973-2023&
#In her pathbreaking text Wayward Lives, Beautiful Experiments: Intimate Histories of Social Upheaval Saidiya Hartman writes that "young Black women were radical thinkers who tirelessly imagined other ways to live and never failed to consider how the world might be otherwise." This two-semester course endeavors to travel through those worlds using the cultural and musical forms of gospel and the blues as our compass. The second semester is guided by the work of scholars and writers like Maureen Mahon, Marla Frederick, Lynée Denise, and Deesha Philyaw and artists like the Clark Sisters, Aretha Franklin, Toni Braxton, and Beyoncé. Together we will interrogate the spectrum of lived experiences making for a kaleidoscopic sonic history of joy, pleasure, sorrow, resistance, and everything in between.#
&RELST 6448 | Islamic Mysticism: Life, Love, and History&
#Sufism, popularly understood as Islamic mysticism, is a loose name given to a broad and diverse collection of beliefs, practices and groups that range and vary across time and space. Going from a small and largely secretive group of mystical practitioners to a mainstream form of piety in the late medieval period, Sufism has a fascinating history, filled with intrigue, controversy, conflict and interesting characters. In this course, students will delve deep into the history of Sufism and read widely from across the Sufi and anti-Sufi traditions. Concentration will be given to practical questions of how Sufis saw themselves and their relationship to God and the world, how they built mystic community, spurned or embraced family life, interacted with mainstream society, and engaged in controversial erotic practices. Across the course, we will read Sufi histories and biographies, poetry, introductory treatises, as well as anti-Sufi polemics and stories.#
&RELST 6588 | Archaeology and the Bible&
#The purpose of the course is to place the Bible within the context of a larger ancient world that can be explored by systematic excavation of physical remains. Students will become familiar with archaeological excavations and finds from ancient Syria-Palestine from 10,000 bce to 586 bce. We will explore this archaeological evidence on its own terms, taking into consideration factors such as archaeological method and the interpretive frameworks in which the excavators themselves work, as well as the implications of this body of evidence for understanding the complexity and diversity of biblical Israel.#
&RELST 6602 | Topics in South Asian Culture and Literature&
#Topics will address South Asian culture and literature and change in relation to curricular needs within the Department of Asian Studies.#
&RELST 6865 | Martin Luther King, Jr.&
#This seminar is an intensive study of the political thought of W.E.B. Du Bois and Martin Luther King, Jr. Approaching texts in contexts, we will read works including The Souls of Black Folk, Darkwater, Black Reconstruction in America, Stride toward Freedom, and Where Do We Go from Here? as illocutionary interventions in major political crises and ideological disputes of twentieth century Black political thought. Topics we will explore include freedom and dignity, slavery and its afterlives, racial capitalism, leadership and mass politics, democracy and abolition, empire and decolonization, political aesthetics, and the politics of prophetic critique. We will pay special attention to Du Bois and King's respective contributions in national and transnational contexts of the global color line.#


$ROMS | Romance Studies$
&ROMS 1102 | FWS: The Craft of Storytelling&
#We tell stories for many reasons: to entertain; to seduce; to complain; to think. This course draws upon the literatures and cultures of the romance languages to explore the role of narrative in our construction and understanding of the world.#
&ROMS 1108 | FWS:Cultural Identities; Cultural Differences&
#What is a culture, and how do we know one when we see it?  This course draws upon the histories and texts of French, Spanish, Italian, and/or Portuguese speaking worlds to discuss issues of identity, difference, politics, place, and community.#
&ROMS 1109 | FWS: Image and Imagination&
#What kind of information do images - in photography, painting, and/or film - convey?  What kind of impact do they have on the minds and the bodies of their audiences?  This course foregrounds the role of visual culture in the societies where Spanish, French, Portuguese, and/or Italian is spoken, and it asks students to dwell upon how visual material interacts with spoken and written language.#
&ROMS 1113 | FWS: Thinking and Thought&
#Some of the most important and intriguing thinkers, from the Middle Ages to postmodernity, have done their thinking in the romance languages.  This course explores a body of work that would be called philosophical by some, theoretical by others, and that, beyond these names, struggles to articulate fundamental concepts, problems, discourses, and situations.#
&ROMS 1120 | FWS: Animals in Global Cinema&
#In this class, students will learn about animal welfare and conservation through international films. We will discuss wildlife, companion, farm, and lab animals in conjunction with human cultures, politics, and geography. The course will cover various animal species in fiction films, documentaries, and animated movies. In some motion pictures, animals will be central, in other more peripheral. Students will learn how to compose a film review, assess sources, and write a critical essay. The class includes guest speakers and a field trip to Cornell Teaching & Research Barns. All films are digital for students to watch in their free time#
&ROMS 2750 | Introduction to Humanities&
#These seminars offer an introduction to the humanities by exploring historical, cultural, social, and political themes. Students will explore themes in critical dialogue with a range of texts and media drawn from the arts, humanities, and/or humanistic social sciences. Guest speakers, including Cornell faculty and Society for the Humanities Fellows, will present from different disciplines and points of view. Students will make field trips to relevant local sites and visit Cornell special collections and archives. Students enrolled in these seminars will have the opportunity to participate in additional programming related to the annual focus theme of Cornell's Society for the Humanities and the Humanities Scholars Program for undergraduate humanities research.#
&ROMS 3300 | The Culture of Violence: Europe 1914-1945&
#At the end of the Great War, Europe has became the realm of a new relationship between violence, culture, and politics. From 1914 to 1945, the continent became the realm of an extraordinary entanglement of wars, revolutions and counterrevolutions, civil wars, and genocides, which could be summarized by the concept of "European Civil War". This course will analyze some features of this cataclysmic time by engaging political theory, cultural and intellectual history, and by scrutinizing novels, films, and intellectual productions.#
&ROMS 4334 | Caribbean Worlds: Landscape, Labor and Climate Imaginaries&
#The seminar will explore relations between the tangible effects of climate on urban, infrastructural, and ecological landscapes in the Caribbean and lived experiences of climate as mediated through literature, film, and other expressive forms. Topics will range from historical accounts of climate as 'catastrophe' – the effects of hurricanes, volcanoes, and earthquakes– to colonial histories of coerced labor, to climate as a more general horizon in the constitution of Caribbean worlds. The seminar draws on the work of anthropologist Anna Tsing, interpreting the industrialized-urbanized ecological territory in terms of "capitalist ruination" which, nonetheless, holds possibilities for other modes of environmentality, as the hazards effected by climate change fundamentally disrupt and transform the very urbanity constituted through colonial and later resource extractive appropriations.#
&ROMS 4681 | Post-Conflict Justice and Resolution in Africa&
#No description available.#
&ROMS 4825 | Literature and Science: Transfers in Poetics & Epistemology&
#Part epistemology and part experimental humanities, this seminar looks at improbable encounters between the divergent regimes of thought and knowledge expressed by "literature" and the "sciences." Our main concern is not the literary thematization of the scientific, nor is it an exploration of science fiction as a genre. Our reflexive focus is rather on the noetic and poetic transfers different modes of textuality could unfold, beyond their hiatus in terms of writing, apparatus, signification, and mental experience. Readings include scholars such as Foucault, Kuhn, Strabo, Haraway, or Hayles, and writers such as Homer, Rousseau, Shelley, or Borges. Several discrete disciplines, such as geometry, cognitive science, botany, primatology, or AI, could be analyzed. The seminar is also linked to the research activities of the Humanities Lab.#
&ROMS 5070 | Methodology of Romance Language Learning and Teaching&
#Focuses on language teaching as facilitation of learning, thus on the learner's processing of language acquisition and the promotion of reflective teaching. Pedagogical approaches will be addressed from a learner-centered perspective involving effective language learning strategies and analysis.#
&ROMS 6225 | The Politics of Memory: Uses of the Past&
#This course calls into question the public use of history. The past is permanently mobilized according to the culture and the problems of the present. Over the last decades, "memory" - a general concept used as a synonym for remembering, history, imagination, or representations of the past - arose at the heart of the public sphere, becoming an object of struggles.  In some historical circumstances, the past is suddenly "reactivated" and irrupts in the present by claiming its "rights," the end of oblivion, and rescue of the vanquished.  Considering some well-known controversies about slavery, colonialism, fascism, communism, civil wars, the Holocaust, etc., the course aims at exploring how collective memories are interwoven with cultural industry, public policies (museums, commemorations, laws, etc.), and history writing.#
&ROMS 6334 | Caribbean Worlds: Landscape, Labor and Climate Imaginaries&
#The seminar will explore relations between the tangible effects of climate on urban, infrastructural, and ecological landscapes in the Caribbean and lived experiences of climate as mediated through literature, film, and other expressive forms. Topics will range from historical accounts of climate as 'catastrophe' – the effects of hurricanes, volcanoes, and earthquakes– to colonial histories of coerced labor, to climate as a more general  horizon in the constitution of Caribbean worlds. The seminar draws on the work of anthropologist Anna Tsing, interpreting the industrialized-urbanized ecological territory in terms of "capitalist ruination" which, nonetheless, holds possibilities for other modes of environmentality, as the hazards effected by climate change fundamentally disrupt and transform the very urbanity constituted through colonial and later resource extractive appropriations.#
&ROMS 6350 | Images and History: Siegfried Kracauer&
#The aim of this course is to investigate the relationship between history and images, by considering, the work of an outstanding representative of twentieth-century critical theory.  Siegfried Kracauer left a rich body of works spanning from the sociology of mass culture to film criticism and the philosophy of history. This seminar will analuze his theory of images by following his intellectual trajectory from Europe to the United States. We will read his early essays on photography an reification, as well as his well-known works on film theory and history (from Caligari to Hitler, Theory of Film; and History: The Last Things Before the Last). Thus, we will inscribe Kracauer into his historical and intellectual context, shaped by other thinkersof images such as Th. W. Adorno, W. Benjamin, E. Panofsky, and M. Schapiro.#
&ROMS 6681 | Post-Conflict Justice and Resolution in Africa&
#No description available.#
&ROMS 6825 | Literature and Science: Transfers in Poetics and Epistemology&
#Part epistemology and part experimental humanities, this seminar looks at improbable encounters between the divergent regimes of thought and knowledge expressed by "literature" and the "sciences." Our main concern is not the literary thematization of the scientific, nor is it an exploration of science fiction as a genre. Our reflexive focus is rather on the noetic and poetic transfers different modes of textuality could unfold, beyond their hiatus in terms of writing, apparatus, signification, and mental experience. Readings include scholars such as Foucault, Kuhn, Strabo, Haraway, or Hayles, and writers such as Homer, Rousseau, Shelley, or Borges. Several discrete disciplines, such as geometry, cognitive science, botany, primatology, or AI, could be analyzed. The seminar is also linked to the research activities of the Humanities Lab.#


$RUSSA | Russian$
&RUSSA 1104 | Conversation Practice&
#Reinforces the speaking skills learned in RUSSA 1122.  Homework includes assignments that must be done in the language lab or on the students' own computer. Class meeting times will be chosen at the organizational meeting (usually the second or third day of the semester) so as to accommodate as many students as possible. The time and place of the organizational meeting will be announced at russian.cornell.edu#
&RUSSA 1122 | Elementary Russian Through Film&
#Gives a thorough grounding in all the language skills: listening, speaking, reading, and writing. Course materials include clips from original Russian films and television programs. Homework includes assignments that must be done in the language lab or on the students' own computers. Note the RUSSA 1104 option. Detailed description at russian.cornell.edu.#
&RUSSA 1126 | Reading Russian Press&
#The emphasis is on reading unabridged articles on a variety of topics from current Russian web pages and translating them into English; a certain amount of discussion (in Russian) may also be undertaken. Detailed description at russian.cornell.edu.#
&RUSSA 1132 | Self-Paced Elementary Russian II&
#RUSSA 1131 and RUSSA 1132 cover the standard Cornell first-year Russian language curriculum at a slower pace than RUSSA 1103 -RUSSA 1104 and RUSSA 1121 -RUSSA 1122, the pace to be chosen by each individual student in consultation with the instructor. Somewhat larger homework reading, writing, and online assignments with fewer and shorter meetings with the instructors in very small groups. Detailed description on the Russian Language Program website.#
&RUSSA 2204 | Intermediate Composition and Conversation&
#Guided conversation, translation, reading, pronunciation, and grammar review, emphasizing the development of accurate and idiomatic expression in the language. Course materials include video clips from an original Russian feature film and work with Russian web sites, in addition to the textbook. Detailed description at russian.cornell.edu.#
&RUSSA 3300 | Directed Studies&
#Taught on a specialized basis for students with special projects (e.g., to supplement a non-language course or thesis work).#
&RUSSA 3304 | Advanced Composition and Conversation&
#Reading, writing, and conversation: current Russian films (feature and documentary), newspapers, television programs, Russian web sites, and other materials are used. Detailed description at russian.cornell.edu.#
&RUSSA 3306 | Creative Writing for Heritage Speakers&
#Creative writing for heritage speakers of Russian. Writing short (one page for each class) texts in Russian in a variety of genres: personal letters, blog entries, news articles, technical descriptions, official documents, short stories, and the like. Two meetings per week if taken for 2 credits hours. An optional third weekly meeting when taken for 3 credit hours has short reading assignments from contemporary literary and non-literary texts. The course is a continuation of RUSSA 3305 but may also be taken by qualified students who have not completed RUSSA 3305. Issues of style and grammar are discussed in every class. The course is primarily for students who learned to speak Russian at home, but students with other backgrounds may be eligible as well. Detailed description at russian.cornell.edu.#
&RUSSA 3310 | Advanced Reading&
#Designed to teach advanced reading and discussion skills. Weekly reading assignments include 20-40 pages of unabridged Russian, fiction or non-fiction. This course may be taken as a continuation of RUSSA 3309, but it may also be taken by itself. Discussion of the reading is conducted entirely in Russian and centered on the content and analysis of the assigned selection. Detailed description on the Russian Language Program website.#
&RUSSA 4414 | Modern Russia: Past and Present II&
#Involves discussion, in Russian, of authentic Russian texts and films (feature or documentary) in a variety of non-literary styles and genres. Detailed description at russian.cornell.edu.#
&RUSSA 4434 | Russian for Russian Specialists&
#The course is designed for advanced students of Russian who are interested in Russian studies requiring fine active control of the language. Students will have an opportunity to speak formally and informally on topics in their field of interest. Fine points of syntax, usage, and style will be discussed. The subject matter differs from year to year.#
&RUSSA 4491 | Reading Course: Russian Literature in the Original Language&
#To be taken in conjunction with any Russian literature course at the advanced level. Students receive 1 credit for reading and discussing works in Russian in addition to their normal course work. Detailed description at russian.cornell.edu.#
&RUSSA 6634 | Russian for Russian Specialists&
#Designed for students whose areas of study require advanced active control of the language. Fine points of translation, usage, and style are discussed and practiced. Syllabus varies from year to year. Maybe taken more than once. Detailed description at russian.cornell.edu.#


$RUSSL | Russian Literature$
&RUSSL 2158 | St. Petersburg and the Making of Modern Russia&
#Founded by Peter the Great in the early eighteenth century, St. Petersburg was built expressly to advertise the triumph of enlightened absolutism at home and to display Russia's status as a major European power abroad. But for all of its neo-classical splendor, the image of imperial St. Petersburg has been consistently invoked as a critical touchstone for the expression of political discontent, social unease and spiritual anxiety. The most modern and "intentional" of Russian cities, Russia's northern capital has come to stand for everything that's wrong with modern life. In this seminar, we will approach St. Petersburg as a cultural text composed by an illustrious trio of Russian writers who saw the complicated history of their country through Peter's "window to the west" -- Nikolai Gogol, Fyodor Dostoevsky and Andrei Bely.#
&RUSSL 2500 | Demons and Witches in Russian Literature and Film&
#A paranoid husband believes that his wife is a witch. A man rejects vehemently the very idea of the Devil's existence, unwittingly doing so right in his face. From outright horrifying to eerily funny, always dangerous, but at times benevolent, demons, witches, and other mysterious and elusive creatures of Russian lore inhabit people's imagination and figure prominently in a number of Russian books and films. In this course, we will read and discuss fairy tales, pieces of poetry, short stories, and one of the greatest novels in Russian twentieth century literature. We will also watch several feature and animated films.#
&RUSSL 3341 | Short Russian Fiction (The Nineteenth Century)&
#The nineteenth-century Russian novel had its beginnings in a period of short fiction; it ended in another one. When Tolstoy was preparing to write Anna Karenina, he reread Pushkin's tales. Dostoevsky's characters have roots in Lermontov's fiction. The Russian novelists also wrote short works. This course focuses on the stories and tales of Pushkin, Lermontov, Gogol, Dostoevsky, Tolstoy, Chekhov, and others. It covers the nineteenth century and extends a decade or two in either direction, to the early years of modern Russian fiction in the late eighteenth century and to the final pre-revolutionary years in the early twentieth century.#
&RUSSL 3389 | The Revolutionary as Author: Autobiography and Political Myth&
#In this course, we will read some of the most influential examples of a genre at the intersection of literature and history: the memoir of the revolutionary. Along the way, we will consider some of the fictional works (e.g. by Turgenev, Dostoevsky) that have been important in this nonfictional tradition, as well as poetry produced by the revolutionary currents we discuss. As we study the autobiographies of Russian, American, and German leftist political figures like Piotr Kropotkin, Emma Goldman, Ernst Toller, and Angela Davis, we will consider the literary methods these writers use to intertwine their own life stories with political history. How is life-writing a form of revolutionary self-fashioning? How have literary movements intersected with revolutionary writings? With special attention to the questions of gender, ethnicity, and race.#
&RUSSL 4492 | Supervised Reading in Russian Literature&
#Independent reading course in topics not covered in regularly scheduled courses. Students select a topic in consultation with the faculty member who has agreed to supervise the course work.#
&RUSSL 6611 | Supervised Reading and Research&
#Independent study.#


$SANSK | Sanskrit$
&SANSK 1132 | Elementary Sanskrit II&
#An introduction to the essentials of Sanskrit grammar. Designed to enable the student to read classical and epic Sanskrit as soon as possible.#
&SANSK 2252 | Intermediate Sanskrit II&
#Readings from Sanskrit dramas and literary commentary.#
&SANSK 3302 | Advanced Sanskrit II&
#Selected readings in Sanskrit literary and philosophical texts.#
&SANSK 5510 | Graduate Studies in Sanskrit&
#Topics vary by semester in relation to student needs.#


$SHUM | Society for the Humanities$
&SHUM 1930 | A Global History of Love&
#By posing seemingly simple questions such as what is love and who has the right to love, this introductory-level lecture course surveys how love has been experienced and expressed from the pre-modern period to the present. Through case studies of familial and conjugal love in Africa, Asia, the US, Europe, and South and Latin America, the course will examine the debates about and enactment's of what constitutes the appropriate way to show love and affection in different cultures and historical contexts. Among the themes we will explore are questions of sexuality, marriage, kinship, and gender rights. A final unit will examine these themes through modern technologies such as the Internet, scientific advances in medicine, and a growing awareness that who and how we love is anything but simple or universal.#
&SHUM 2158 | St. Petersburg and the Making of Modern Russia&
#Founded by Peter the Great in the early eighteenth century, St. Petersburg was built expressly to advertise the triumph of enlightened absolutism at home and to display Russia's status as a major European power abroad. But for all of its neo-classical splendor, the image of imperial St. Petersburg has been consistently invoked as a critical touchstone for the expression of political discontent, social unease and spiritual anxiety. The most modern and "intentional" of Russian cities, Russia's northern capital has come to stand for everything that's wrong with modern life. In this seminar, we will approach St. Petersburg as a cultural text composed by an illustrious trio of Russian writers who saw the complicated history of their country through Peter's "window to the west" -- Nikolai Gogol, Fyodor Dostoevsky and Andrei Bely.#
&SHUM 2315 | The Occupation of Japan&
#In August 1945, Japan was a devastated country; its cities burned, its people starving, its military and government in surrender. World War II was over. The occupation had begun. What sort of society emerged from the cooperation and conflict between occupiers and occupied? Students will examine sources ranging from declassified government documents to excerpts from diaries and bawdy fiction, alongside major scholarly studies, to find out. The first half of the course focuses on key issues in Japanese history, like the fate of the emperor, constitutional revision, and the emancipation of women. The second half zooms out for a wider perspective, for the occupation of Japan was never merely a local event. It was the collapse of Japanese empire and the rise of American empire in Asia. It was decolonization in Korea and the start of the Cold War. Students will further investigate these links in final individual research projects.#
&SHUM 2350 | Literature and Medicine&
#How does literary language depict the experience of physical suffering? Can a poem or a novel palliate pain, illness, even the possibility of death? From darkly comic narratives of black plague to the rise and fall of hysteria to depictions of the AIDS crisis, this course examines literature centered on medical practices from the early modern period through the twentieth century. Why have medical practices changed, and how do writers address their political, social, and ideological implications? Readings will include a broad range of genres, including poetry (Dickinson, Whitman, Keats), fiction (McEwan, Chekhov, Gilman, Kafka, Camus), theater (Kushner), nonfiction prose (Woolf, Freud), and critical theory (Foucault, Scarry, Canguilhem, Sontag).#
&SHUM 2435 | Global Maoism: History and Present&
#Maoism and Chinese Communism are not history after Mao's death in 1976. In China, Maoism holds the key to the enduring success of the Chinese Communist Party (CCP), one of the most remarkable organizations of the 20th and 21st centuries that has survived the collapse of communism in Europe and the USSR. With the beneficial transformation brought by capitalism and globalization in China, the end of the Cold War and the narrative of the "end of history" cannot explain the resurgence of Maoism.#
&SHUM 2455 | Introduction to Bioethics&
#Bioethics is the study of ethical questions raised by advances in the medical field. Questions we'll discuss will include: Is it morally permissible to advance a patient's death, at his or her request, to reduce suffering? Is there a moral difference between killing someone and letting someone die? What ethical issues are raised by advance care planning? What is it to die? What forms of cognitive decline or physical change could you survive (and still be you)? On the flip side, were you ever a fetus? How should the rights of pregnant women be balanced against those of the fetus? Should parents be given control over the genetic make-up of their children? Are some forms of human enhancement morally troubling? Should we aim to be better than well? What is it to be disabled?  How should scarce health care resources or costly therapies be allocated to those in need? Should organ sales be permitted? Should medical treatment (or health insurance!) ever be compulsory, or is mandating treatment unacceptably paternalistic? Should doctors or hospitals be permitted to refuse to provide certain medical services that violate their consciences?#
&SHUM 2460 | Japanese Pop Culture&
#Japanese pop culture—anime, manga, video games, music and more—has been a major phenomenon with massive worldwide popularity for the last three decades. In this course, we will explore a wide range of Japanese pop cultural forms, exploring the interactions between different media, Japanese pop culture as global pop culture, and a variety of modes of analyzing visual and audio materials. We will also see how pop cultural works themselves, in their content and form, engage with questions of gender, technology, fandom, nation, and the environment. No prior knowledge of Japanese language, culture, or history required. All readings and screenings will be available in English or with English subtitles.#
&SHUM 2703 | Thinking Media&
#For description, see GERST 2703.#
&SHUM 2729 | Climate, Archaeology and History&
#An introduction to the story of how human history from the earliest times through to the recent period interrelates with changing climate conditions on Earth. The course explores the whole expanse of human history, but concentrates on the most recent 15,000 years through to the Little Ice Age (14th-19th centuries AD). Evidence from science, archaeology and history are brought together to assess how climate has shaped the human story.#
&SHUM 2750 | Introduction to Humanities&
#These seminars offer an introduction to the humanities by exploring historical, cultural, social, and political themes. Students will explore themes in critical dialogue with a range of texts and media drawn from the arts, humanities, and/or humanistic social sciences. Guest speakers, including Cornell faculty and Society for the Humanities Fellows, will present from different disciplines and points of view. Students will make field trips to relevant local sites and visit Cornell special collections and archives. Students enrolled in these seminars will have the opportunity to participate in additional programming related to the annual focus theme of Cornell's Society for the Humanities and the Humanities Scholars Program for undergraduate humanities research.#
&SHUM 2805 | Introduction to Asian Art: Material Worlds&
#Trade in and to Asia proved to be a key force in creating our modern "globalized" world. The Indian Ocean and the China Seas converged on Southeast Asia, where a cosmopolitan array of ships from every shore plied their trade, set sail, and returned with the monsoon winds. People, goods, and ideas also traveled on camelback across the undulating contours of the Gobi Desert, connecting India, the Near East and Central Asia with China, Korea, and Japan. This course introduces students to the raw ingredients of things in motion, poised interactively in time and space, as material worlds collide. Wood, bamboo, bronze, clay, earthenware, ink, spices, textiles and tea - students will navigate sites of encounter at the Herbert F. Johnson Museum from pre modern to the present.#
&SHUM 3334 | Black Body Politics: Histories, Theories, and Debates&
#The body has been crucially important to Black liberation politics. Not only has it been a site of contestation and control, but it has also served as a productive site of protest, alliance, and collective action, in ways both real and imagined. This course explores the historical debates and theories surrounding the body with a particular focus on how blackness informs bodily meanings and negotiations across the African diaspora. Weekly topics will allow students to consider the metaphorical and material dimensions of the body while also interrogating the very concept of embodiment, the ways in which individual bodies are constituted and reconstituted over time.#
&SHUM 3475 | Philosophy of Punishment&
#This course addresses central debates in the philosophy of legal punishment. We will analyze the leading theories of punishment, including the familiar retributivist and deterrent alternatives, as well as lesser-known hybrid, self-defense, and rehabilitative accounts. We will ask whether each theory offers a general justification for establishing institutions of punishment, and whether each theory justifies specific acts of punishment. Other topics may include criminal responsibility, the legitimacy of collateral consequences (e.g., the denial of felons' voting rights), alternatives to punishment, etc.#
&SHUM 3741 | Design Thinking, Media, and Community&
#This StudioLab course connects critical design teams with researchers, NGOs, and nonprofits working on human rights, public health, and environmental and land rights in the US and abroad. Practicing methods of transmedia knowledge, critical design thinking, and strategic storytelling, students collaborate on projects with the Center on the Death Penalty Worldwide, Health Access Connect (Uganda), NYS 4-H, and SOOFA Ranch (GA). Consulting on partners' ongoing projects, teams study and practice processes from IDEO's Human-Centered Design Thinking and Stanford's Design for Extreme Affordability, as well as UX, tactical media, and activist organizing developed by ACT-UP, Black Lives Matter, Guerrilla Girls, and contemporary, multi-platform campaigns, presenting and sharing their collaborations via project site and other platforms.#
&SHUM 3750 | Humanities Scholars Research Methods&
#This course explores the practice, theory, and methodology of humanities research, critical analysis, and communication through writing and oral presentation. We will study the work and impact of humanists (scholars of literature, history, theory, art, visual studies, film, anthropology, gender and sexuality studies), who pose big questions about the human condition. By reading and analyzing their scholarship—critiquing them and engaging their ideas—we will craft our own methods and voices. Students will refine their research methods (library research, note taking, organizing material, bibliographies, citation methods, proposals, outlines, etc.) and design their own independent research project.#
&SHUM 4103 | Nabokov, Naturally&
#Vladimir Nabokov's legacy at Cornell is not limited to the world-famous literary works he produced here. The university's natural and built environments also provided powerful material for his lifelong pursuit of butterflies within their geo- and biodiverse ecosystems. In this project-oriented course on the writer-lepidopterist, we will read his words, look at his drawings, study his collections of insects and plants, and develop our own modes of engaging with place and planet through a lively science-art practice.#
&SHUM 4112 | The Historical Geography of Black America&
#This course provides students with a challenging and interdisciplinary examination of race and space in North American history. It engages public history and critical geographic study through the lens of African Diasporic place-making from the early national period to the present day. How did Afro-descendant people in North America come to know the landscape and fashion communities around wilderness, swamps, urban cores and other "undesirable" areas? What material elements of black spaces came to define what is meant by slums and ghettos? This course illustrates how ongoing struggles that Black communities face with displacement and gentrification are part of a long history that developed alongside territorial expansion and nation building that charted uneven paths to prosperity based on race, gender, and class. This course is timely given that there are about 1,912 sites listed in the U.S. National Register of Historic Places Database as having significance to "Black" heritage and will help students develop their facilities for assigning meaning to these identified sites and what place these spaces have in the understanding of American history.#
&SHUM 4202 | Women and Gender Issues in Africa&
#There are two contrasting views of the status and role of women in Africa. One view portrays African women as controlled by men in all social institutions. Another view projects women as having a relatively favorable position in indigenous societies where they were active, with an identity independent of men's; in they were not clustered in a private sphere of the home while men controlled the public sphere. This course examines critical gender theories and African women in historical and contemporary periods. The topics covered include: women in non-westernized/pre-colonial societies; the impact and legacy of colonial policies; access to education and knowledge; political and economic participation in local and global contexts; women's organizations; armed conflicts and peace; same-gender love and evolving family values; the law and health challenges; the United Nations and World Conferences on Women: Mexico 1975, Copenhagen 1980, Nairobi 1985, Beijing 1995, post-Beijing meetings, the 2010 superstructure of UN Women, and Beijing +20 in 2015 with the UN Women's slogan "Empowering Women, Empowering Humanity: Picture it!"#
&SHUM 4426 | Narrating Choson Korea: History and Memory&
#This course will explore the culture and society of Choson Korea (1392—1897) through a variety of historical, literary, and visual representations. Following the major political, social, and cultural transformations that shaped Choson Korea, such as Confucianism and the introduction of the patriarchy; changes to relationships among family, class, and gender; the Hideyoshi invasion and the collapse of the Ming dynasty; and the flourishing of commerce and foreign trade, we will examine a variety of discursive practices for constructing individual and collective identities and analyze how these identities changed over time in relation to shifting historical conditions in Choson Korea.#
&SHUM 4681 | Post-Conflict Justice and Resolution in Africa&
#No description available.#
&SHUM 4698 | Politics and the Speaking Animal&
#According to Aristotle, human beings are political animals because they are speaking animals. What's the connection? What are its implications? Is it anti-political to use violence to compel silence, or to vest authority in philosophical insights beyond language, or to coordinate action mechanically or algorithmically? Is this association of politics with speech ideological, a way of valorizing some utterances while casting others as mere noise? What are the implications of the double gesture of affirming human animality while simultaneously elevating humans above other animals? We'll pursue these questions through a close engagement with the political theory of Hannah Arendt, whom we'll place in critical conversation with a wide range of other ancient, modern, and contemporary sources.#
&SHUM 4699 | Mapping the Black Pacific(s): Afro-Asian Encounters&
#This seminar investigates the emergent concept of the Black Pacific, an area that scholars across multiple disciplines in recent years have begun to shed new light on. This course is designed to encourage an exploration of various methods including autobiography, video, film and others. This seminar seeks to examine the histories of African descendants to Asia via the Pacific rim and consider the ways in the varying concepts of Blackness itself may look different if we center our gaze on the trans-Pacific world. The term "Mapping" in the course title is in response to the often-overlooked encounters between peoples of African and Asian descent and the presence of African descendants in this region.#
&SHUM 4700 | The Jewish Dead&
#We will explore the thesis that far from being dead and therefore gone, the continued presence of the dead is absolutely foundational for the workings of Jewishness. What that "presence" could possibly mean, to us who do not usually think in terms of immortal spirit, will be a central puzzle for our discussions. We will also have scope for consideration of ways in which the continuing "weight" of the dead may inhibit needed change and rethinking. Readings will include selections from the Babylonian Talmud, work in early modern cultural history, and studies of the culture of death and dying in contemporary Jewish communities, including the life and culture of Jewish cemeteries, especially in the New York area.#
&SHUM 4701 | Nightlife&
#This course explores nightlife as a temporality that fosters countercultural performances of the self and that serves as a site for the emergence of alternative kinship networks. Focusing on queer communities of color, course participants will be asked to interrogate the ways in which nightlife demonstrates the queer world-making potential that exists beyond the normative 9-5 capitalist model of production. Performances of the everyday, alongside films, texts, and performance art, will be analyzed through a performance studies methodological lens. Through close readings and sustained cultural analysis, students will acquire a critical understanding of the potentiality of spaces, places, and geographies codified as "after hours" in the development of subcultures, alternative sexualities, and emerging performance practices.#
&SHUM 4702 | Silent Creation: Potential and Dilemmas&
#When you work, do you listen to music, or wear noise-cancelling headphones? Why? This course will examine historical choices for silence and interact with local practitioners of various crafts to interrogate whether there is a relationship between silence and creation. We will focus on both mental creativity and works of craft, pairing modern theory with ancient texts written by authors such as Augustine of Hippo and Gregory Nazianzus.#
&SHUM 4703 | The Glitch: Errors, Disability, and the Edges of Digital Media&
#A "glitch" is when something goes "wrong" in digital media—sometimes, however, it is precisely when something "fails" that can tell us about the structures and forces that underlie that media. In this course we'll be exploring a wide variety of examples of how media creators, artists, hackers, game developers, Deaf and disability activists, and other marginalized groups from across the world (with a particular focus on Japan) have used "glitches" to tell us something new about the digital, looking at works ranging from electronic literature to online horror stories to experimental video games and installation art.#
&SHUM 4750 | Senior Capstone Seminar for Humanities Scholars&
#This course is designed to support seniors in the Humanities Scholars Program working on their capstone projects. Students in the course will be guided in their project research and writing. The course aligns with the following HSP learning goals.#
&SHUM 4800 | Rural Humanities Seminar&
#The Rural Humanities seminar will introduce students to the public humanities as both a disciplinary inquiry and a set of practices grounded in public and community engagement. It is intended to train cohorts of graduate students and advanced undergraduates in the various theories, methods, and practices of public humanities, to think collectively with and beyond disciplinary interests, and to bring these discipline-defined research agendas to much wider communities by first focusing on local rural communities. Students will produce a collaborative project related to or working with a community partner.#
&SHUM 4860 | Prison Theatre and the Possibilities of Transformation&
#To explore cultural aspects of imprisonment through a focus on theatre produced by those incarcerated.  Does making theatre in prison seem to assist in transformation? Students create work with PPTG members in lab sessions, do narrative interviews, create annotated Internet data base.#
&SHUM 6681 | Post-Conflict Justice and Resolution in Africa&
#No description available.#
&SHUM 6698 | Politics and the Speaking Animal&
#According to Aristotle, human beings are political animals because they are speaking animals. What's the connection? What are its implications? Is it anti-political to use violence to compel silence, or to vest authority in philosophical insights beyond language, or to coordinate action mechanically or algorithmically? Is this association of politics with speech ideological, a way of valorizing some utterances while casting others as mere noise? What are the implications of the double gesture of affirming human animality while simultaneously elevating humans above other animals? We'll pursue these questions through a close engagement with the political theory of Hannah Arendt, whom we'll place in critical conversation with a wide range of other ancient, modern, and contemporary sources.#
&SHUM 6699 | Mapping the Black Pacific(s): Afro-Asian Encounters&
#This seminar investigates the emergent concept of the Black Pacific, an area that scholars across multiple disciplines in recent years have begun to shed new light on. This course is designed to encourage an exploration of various methods including autobiography, video, film and others. This seminar seeks to examine the histories of African descendants to Asia via the Pacific rim and consider the ways in the varying concepts of Blackness itself may look different if we center our gaze on the trans-Pacific world. The term "Mapping" in the course title is in response to the often-overlooked encounters between peoples of African and Asian descent and the presence of African descendants in this region.#
&SHUM 6700 | The Jewish Dead&
#We will explore the thesis that far from being dead and therefore gone, the continued presence of the dead is absolutely foundational for the workings of Jewishness. What that "presence" could possibly mean, to us who do not usually think in terms of immortal spirit, will be a central puzzle for our discussions. We will also have scope for consideration of ways in which the continuing "weight" of the dead may inhibit needed change and rethinking. Readings will include selections from the Babylonian Talmud, work in early modern cultural history, and studies of the culture of death and dying in contemporary Jewish communities, including the life and culture of Jewish cemeteries, especially in the New York area.#
&SHUM 6702 | Silent Creation: Potential and Dilemmas&
#When you work, do you listen to music, or wear noise-cancelling headphones? Why? This course will examine historical choices for silence and interact with local practitioners of various crafts to interrogate whether there is a relationship between silence and creation. We will focus on both mental creativity and works of craft, pairing modern theory with ancient texts written by authors such as Augustine of Hippo and Gregory Nazianzus.#
&SHUM 6703 | The Glitch: Errors, Disability, and the Edges of Digital Media&
#A "glitch" is when something goes "wrong" in digital media—sometimes, however, it is precisely when something "fails" that can tell us about the structures and forces that underlie that media. In this course we'll be exploring a wide variety of examples of how media creators, artists, hackers, game developers, Deaf and disability activists, and other marginalized groups from across the world (with a particular focus on Japan) have used "glitches" to tell us something new about the digital, looking at works ranging from electronic literature to online horror stories to experimental video games and installation art.#
&SHUM 6800 | Rural Humanities Seminar&
#The Rural Humanities seminar will introduce students to the public humanities as both a disciplinary inquiry and a set of practices grounded in public and community engagement. It is intended to train cohorts of graduate students and advanced undergraduates in the various theories, methods, and practices of public humanities, to think collectively with and beyond disciplinary interests, and to bring these discipline-defined research agendas to much wider communities by first focusing on local rural communities. Students will produce a collaborative project related to or working with a community partner.#


$SINHA | Sinhala$
&SINHA 1100 | Elements of Sinhala Language and Culture&
#This course will introduce the basic Sinhala language elements and elements of Sri Lankan culture for those who are interested in the field of language and culture. Also for those planning to travel to Sri Lanka, heritage students, etc.#
&SINHA 1122 | Elementary Sinhala II&
#Semi-intensive introduction to colloquial Sinhala, intended for beginners. A thorough grounding is given in all the language skills; listening, speaking, reading, and writing.#
&SINHA 2202 | Intermediate Sinhala II&
#This course further develops student competence in colloquial Sinhala, attending to all the language skills: listening, speaking, reading and writing. In addition, this course prepares students for the transition to literary Sinhala.#
&SINHA 4400 | Literary Sinhala II&
#This one-semester course further develops students' comprehension of written Literary Sinhala, using sample materials from a variety of genres prepared by the instructor, as well as excerpts from texts relevant to graduate student research (when appropriate).#


$SNLIT | Sanskrit Literature$
&SNLIT 6602 | Topics in Sanskrit Literature II&
#Advanced readings in Sanskrit poetic, philosophical, and grammatical literature.#


$SOC | Sociology$
&SOC 1101 | Introduction to Sociology&
#This course is a broad introduction to the field of sociology. Course materials are designed to illustrate the distinctive features of the sociological perspective and to start you thinking sociologically about yourself and the broader social world. To think sociologically is to recognize that being embedded in the world constrains behavior, and that individuals are both social actors and social products. To think sociologically is also to recognize that our contemporary world, with its enduring cultural, political, and economic institutions, is as much a social product as we are. We will begin by covering theoretical and methodological foundations of the sociological perspective.  We will go on to explore the concept of social stratification and will survey primary axes of social difference. In the second half of the course we will look more closely at how individuals relate to each other, how social inequality is enacted and reinforced in everyday life, and at the way in which the organization of social life shapes individuals and groups, such as through social networks, residential neighborhoods, schooling, families, and on-line communication.#
&SOC 2030 | Population and Public Policy&
#Population and Public Policy exposes students to the logic and skills of demographic research and policy analysis. The course emphasizes the nature, collection, and interpretation of demographic data, the application of demographic techniques, the major components (i.e., fertility, mortality, and migration) of national and global population change, and contemporary population problems (e.g., population aging, teen childbearing, the rise in non-marital childbearing, immigrant adaptation). The course also emphasizes public policies that can influence demographic change. The format primarily involves lectures and class discussion. Students are expected to attend each class and be prepared to discuss assigned materials.#
&SOC 2100 | What Is Science? An Introduction to the Social Studies of Science and Technology&
#This course introduces some central ideas in the field of S&TS. It is aimed at students from any background who are challenged to think more critically about what counts as scientific knowledge and why, and how science and technology intervene in the wider world. It also serves as an introduction to majors in Biology and Society or in Science and Technology Studies. The course mixes lectures, discussions, writing, and other activities. The discussion sections are an integral part of the course and attendance is required. A series of take-home written assignments and quizzes throughout the semester comprise the majority of the grade.#
&SOC 2150 | Introduction to Organizations&
#In modern society, we all spend much of our lives participating in or interacting with organizations. Most of us are born in organizations, educated in organizations, and work in organizations. The ubiquity and variability of organizations result in a myriad of organizational challenges we regularly face. The goal of this introductory course is to help students gain understandings of the origins, structure, and dynamics of organizations and their relationships to their environment. It is designed to provide an exposure to multiple theories of organizations and within the context of changing technological, social, and political/legal environments and the globalization of the world economy. We will also apply organizational theories to a variety of empirical cases.#
&SOC 2190 | Introduction to Economic Sociology&
#Economic sociology extends the sociological approach to the study of economic life. The aim of the seminar is to understand the relationship between social structure, organizational form and economic action. We explore social processes embedded in economic exchange and knowledge spillover and economy. Why do individuals cooperate with strangers? Why is trust important in economic life. Why is social exchange the foundation of sustainable economic action? At the macro-level, the course addresses the question of why and how institutions enable, motivate and guide economic action; the social dynamics of institutional change; and explore the role of norms and networks in the capitalism of the United States and China.#
&SOC 2208 | Social Inequality&
#This course reviews contemporary approaches to understanding social inequality and the processes by which it comes to be seen as legitimate, natural, or desirable. We address questions of the following kind: what are the major forms of stratification in human history? Are inequality and poverty inevitable? How many social classes are there in advanced industrialism societies? Is there a "ruling class"? Are lifestyles, attitudes, and personalities shaped fundamentally by class membership? Can individuals born into poverty readily escape their class origins and move upward in the class structure? Are social contacts and "luck" important forces in matching individuals to jobs and class positions? What types of social processes serve to maintain and alter racial, ethnic, and gender discrimination in labor markets? Is there an "underclass"? These and other questions are addressed in light of classical and contemporary theory and research.#
&SOC 2310 | Sociology of Sexualities&
#This course introduces the field of sexuality studies to advanced undergraduates by examining the social, cultural, political, and historical dimensions of sexuality. We will read theoretical and empirical research with an emphasis on sociological perspectives and methods. We will develop an understanding of sexuality as a socially constructed system of stratification that is shaped by race, gender, class, and ability. Topics include sexual identity, behavior, and desire (such as heterosexuality and homosexuality), queer theory, the body, healthism, reproductive justice, and human rights.#
&SOC 2370 | Race, Racism, and Public Policy&
#Public policy is a fundamental mechanism for addressing the most vexing and important social problems of our time. Racial inequality and structural racism are chief among such problems. Policy is thus widely understood and frequently touted as a means for redressing the harms of racism. Yet, public policy has also been identified as a channel through which racism flows. These seemingly paradoxical understandings of the relationships between racism and public policy raise critical questions about equality, democracy, the economy, and politics. This course examines such questions. questions. We begin by theoretically grounding key concepts such as "race" "racism" and "public policy." We then consider the historical record, highlighting the fundamental role of racism in shaping politics and policy. Next, we build on these conceptual and historical foundations through thematic investigation of core policy elements (e.g., policy design, policy implementation, policy feedback), key policy institutions (e.g., legislatures, parties) and significant policy actors (e.g., social movement organizations, interest groups). Finally, the class wraps up with a series of policy "deep dives" involving close examination of specific policy domains (e.g., housing, health, the enviornment). This course provides students with the knowledge and analytical tools necessary to better understand the realities and complexities of race, racism, and public policy in the United States.#
&SOC 2710 | US Education System: Courts, Data, Law and Politics&
#This course aims to explore and answer a single question about America's promise-of success if you work hard and do well in school: Why do we have such substantial and long-standing inequality in the U.S.? In answering this central question, we will investigate the goals, roles, and outcomes of formal educational institutions in American society and the legal and policy environment in which they operate. Specifically, we will review historical state and federal policy, trace the $700 million spent, and interrogate the sociological functions of public and private K12 schools, including the successes, failures, and enigmas of school organization and policy at the local, state, and national level.#
&SOC 2800 | Social Movements&
#No description available.#
&SOC 3060 | High Tech Regions in Comparative Perspective&
#This course focuses on the sociological histories of regional-based technology clusters. The construction and life course of the technology cluster is a prevalent form of contemporary economic development. Students enrolled in the course will regularly provide in-class presentations of select case studies of particular regions and industries. Case studies will include regional high-tech clusters in the following locations: Silicon Valley, Boston, Israel, Taiwan, Japan, Germany, South Korea, Great Britain, Austin, Seattle, Portland, Albany-New York, Rochester-NY, Buffalo-NY, North Carolina, Chicago, Washington D.C., New York City-Cornell Tech, and regions and industries selected by students enrolled in the course. The course will utilize classical sociological themes as a guiding conceptual framework including: structuration, community, culture, social networks, and inequalities (gender/race/class).#
&SOC 3170 | Nationalism and Identity&
#No description available.#
&SOC 3180 | Health Disparities&
#This course will examine how health disparities are defined and measured, sources of health disparities, and strategies to reduce health disparities. During the course students will learn of the complexities of factors that influence patterns of disease and health at multiple levels by analyzing studies of health outcomes, the social conditions that are related to the health of populations, and some of the mechanisms through which these patterns are produced.#
&SOC 3490 | How do Social Structures Emerge? An Introduction to the Micro-Macro Problem&
#Where do social structures come from? Social structures emerge from interaction between individuals. But not all interactions create durable structures. In this course, we will explore several micro-mechanisms through which the intended and unintended consequences of interdependent action create macro-level structures that we care about. How can small initial difference blow-up into large macro-level inequality? Will interpersonal influence alleviate or aggravate inequality? Why do individual actors engage in collective action to create public goods, when everyone will enjoy the benefits of such goods regardless of one's participation? How large an in-group bias is needed to create segregated neighborhoods? These are examples of questions that we will explore in this seminar. Exploring these questions will lead us to topics in interpersonal influence, diffusion, collective action, and emergence of norms, hierarchies, and segregation patterns, among others.#
&SOC 3580 | Big Data on the Social World&
#This course showcases frontier research that uses big data and graphical analysis to understand our social world. Topics include inequality and opportunity, success in higher education, the gender wage gap, taxing the rich, Chinese censorship, the spread of false news, online dating, and other issues relevant to contemporary society.#
&SOC 3710 | Comparative Social Inequalities&
#This course offers a sociological understanding of social inequality and the social construction of difference. Designed from the perspective of comparative historical analysis, we will examine the ways in which class, gender, race/ethnicity, religion, and sexuality differences work across place and time within a shared set of global dynamics. The course will pay special attention to how difference is constructed, institutionalized, and experienced. Thus, the course will not only address inequality based on economic and labor relations, but also emphasize complicated notions of difference and identity to offer an analysis that links inequality to power and forms of rule.#
&SOC 4110 | Religion and Social Life&
#Global conflicts, raising children, electing presidents, praying for a loved one: from the mundane to the extraordinary, religion plays a significant role in social life, regardless of whether or not one considers oneself "religious." In this course we will investigate religion and its impacts in society from a sociological perspective. Questions we will ask include: How does religion "fit" into society? What are the contours of contemporary religion in the United States and around the world? How do religious identities interact with other aspects of social life, including gender, race and politics? In what ways have religions and religious life changed over time? As social scientists, how can we best study religion? The course will use examples from a variety of religious and secular traditions to help us understand religion's sociological significance in the contemporary world.#
&SOC 4160 | The Ethnography of Poverty and Inequality&
#This course explores poverty and inequality in American society through the lens of ethnographic and other field-based research. We will read classic and contemporary texts which have shaped our understanding of how social inequality and exclusion constrain people's daily lives and how groups develop innovative responses to these constraints.#
&SOC 4320 | Culture Wars in the Age of Tribal Politics&
#Is there a "culture war for the soul of Amerca"? This seminar will explore the definition, types, causes, dynamics, diffusion, and consequences of partisan cultural alignment. Readings will include theoretical models and empirical studies of opinion cascades, identity politics, motivated reasoning, network homophily, echo chambers, filter bubbles, social contagion, conformity, and cultural cognition. What is polarization? Is it the disappearance of a consensual middle ground or the tendency for substantively unrelated opinions to become correlated? Did polarization emerge from the top down, beginning with political and cultural elites, or from the bottom up, through the self-reinforcing dynamics of network homophily and peer influence? Do social media and cable news contribute to polarization or merely reflect it? Can polarization be reversed, and if not, what are the implications for democratic institutions?#
&SOC 4910 | Independent Study&
#This is for undergraduates who wish to obtain research experience or to do extensive reading on a special topic.#
&SOC 4950 | Honors Research&
#Students choose a sociology faculty member to work with on research to write an honors thesis. Candidates for honors must maintain a cumulative GPA at least an A- in all sociology classes.#
&SOC 4960 | Honors Thesis: Senior Year&
#Continuation of SOC 4950.  Continue to work with honors supervisor and work on and write an honors thesis.#
&SOC 5020 | Basic Problems in Sociology II&
#Continuation of SOC 5010. Emphasis is on the logical analysis of theoretical perspectives, theories, and theoretical research programs shaping current sociological research. The course includes an introduction to basic concepts used in the logical analysis of theories and examines their application to specific theories and theoretical research programs. Theoretical perspectives include functionalism, social exchange, and interactionism.#
&SOC 5190 | Workshop on Social Inequality&
#This course provides a forum in which students and others can present, discuss, and receive instant feedback on their inequality-related research. Its primary goals is to help students advance their own research; its secondary goal is to introduce selected debates in the contemporary inequality literature in a more comprehensive fashion that is possible in the introductory graduate-level seminar on inequality.#
&SOC 5710 | US Education System: Courts, Data, Law and Politics&
#This course aims to explore and answer a single question about America's promise-of success if you work hard and do well in school: Why do we have such substantial and long-standing inequality in the U.S.? In answering this central question, we will investigate the goals, roles, and outcomes of formal educational institutions in American society and the legal and policy environment in which they operate. Specifically, we will review historical state and federal policy, trace the $700 million spent, and interrogate the sociological functions of public and private K12 schools, including the successes, failures, and enigmas of school organization and policy at the local, state, and national level.#
&SOC 6020 | Intermediate Statistics for Sociological Research&
#This course provides the second part of a two-semester introduction to quantitative methods in sociological research. It is designed for first-year graduate students in sociology. The course covers intermediate topics in linear regression, and provides an introduction to models for categorical and count data, the analysis of time data, and longitudinal data. We'll also discuss data-related issues such as missing data and weighting, and data that are complicated by issues of non-random design. While statistical modeling is the focus of the course, we proceed with the assumption that models are only as good as the theoretical and substantive knowledge behind them. Thus, in covering the technical material, we will spend considerable time discussing the link between substantive knowledge and statistical practice.#
&SOC 6030 | Graduate Research Practicum&
#This course is designed to assist the student's professional development on a "learning by doing and feedback" basis. The course is organized around presentation and discussion of ongoing research projects. As a general rule the course welcomes auditors and all members of the sociology community interested in the variety of research being pursued at Cornell, though participation is with the permission of the instructor(s).#
&SOC 6050 | Social Demography&
#The objective of this course is to provide a conceptual overview and technical "tool-kit" for studying population issues and public policies. What is a demographic perspective?  And how can it be applied usefully to important domestic and international policy issues of the day (e.g., housing segregation, health and retirement, labor mobility and immigration, and above- and below-replacement fertility, school projections, etc.). The course will introduce students to various demographic data sources (e.g., decennial census and periodic fertility surveys), conventional measures (e.g., fertility rates and measures of poverty/inequality), and conventional demographic techniques (e.g., life tables, rate standardization, and population forecasting) used in social demography.  For the most part, the course places the emphasis on the appropriate application of demographic tools and on scientifically-sound interpretations.#
&SOC 6080 | Proseminar in Sociology&
#Discussion of the current state of sociology and of the research interests of members of the graduate field; taught by all members of the field.#
&SOC 6110 | Social Network: Theory and Applications&
#Social Network Analysis (SNA), or the mathematical analysis of webs of relationships, is a thriving part of sociology and an active research area for numerous other disciplines. This course is intended to introduce students to the basics of SNA and help them apply it to a variety of research questions. We will discuss the theoretical underpinnings of the area, basic concepts used in SNA analyses, and finally methods for describing and interpreting network data. At the completion of this course students should have a basic understanding of social networks and be able to carry out a variety analyses on their own.#
&SOC 6310 | Qualitative Research Methods for Studying Science, Technology, and Medicine&
#In this Graduate seminar we will discuss the nature, politics and basic assumptions underlying qualitative research. We will examine a selection of qualitative methods ranging from interviewing, oral history, ethnography, participant observation, archival research and visual methods. We will also discuss the relationship between theory and method. All stages of a research project will be discussed - choice of research topic and appropriate methods; human subject concerns and permissions; issues regarding doing research; as well as the process of writing up and publishing research findings.#
&SOC 6350 | Social Change in Theory and Practice&
#Sociology as a discipline formed in the effort to comprehend the emergence of modern society via industrialization, urbanization, and marketization, with concurrent transformation in social beliefs, typical life courses, and social networks. Much of today's sociology is implicitly oriented to a related concern with theorizing quantitative and qualitative change, as can be seen in investigation of online interaction, gender roles and identity, political polarization, modification in organizational forms, and the like. This course examines conceptions of substantive social change by leading sociologists like Daniel Bell, James Coleman, Randall Collins, Alvin Gouldner, John Meyer, Theda Skocpol, Duncan Watts, and Harrison White, and considers how they inform and are enriched by empirical inquiry.#
&SOC 6460 | Seminar in Economic Sociology&
#Introduces the field of economic sociology and covers major topics addressed by sociologists studying the intersection of economy and society. We begin with classic statements on economic sociology and then move to the invigoration of the field in recent years, reading works that have been instrumental in this invigoration. Consideration is given to the several variants of "institutionalism" that have informed the sociological study of markets, organizations, and economic exchange.#
&SOC 6520 | Culture Wars in the Age of Tribal Politics&
#Political and cultural polarization have steadily increased in the three decades since Patrick Buchanan declared a "cultural war for the soul of America." Concerns include echo chambers, filter bubbles, and increasingly vitriolic discourse, with the cumulative potential to erode democratic institutions. The first half of the semester explores the definition, types, measures, dynamics, and consequences of partisan cultural alignment. The second half addresses the causes, diffusion, and consequences of polarization. Readings will include theoretical models and empirical studies of opinion cascades, identity politics, motivated reasoning, network homophily, echo chambers, filter bubbles, social contagion, conformity, and cultural cognition. Weekly discussions will grapple with a range of questions, including: What is polarization? Is it the tendency for opinions to be extreme, with the disappearance of a consensual middle ground, or is it the tendency for substantively unrelated opinions to become correlated? Did polarization emerge from the top down, beginning with political and cultural elites, or from the bottom up, through the self-reinforcing dynamics of network homophily and peer influence? Do social media and cable news contribute to polarization or merely reflect it? Can polarization be reversed, and if not, what are the implications for democratic institutions?#
&SOC 6910 | Independent Study&
#For graduates who wish to obtain research experience or to do extensive reading on a special topic. Permission to enroll for independent study is granted only to students who present an acceptable prospectus and secure the agreement of a faculty member to serve as supervisor for the project throughout the semester.#
&SOC 6950 | Spatial Demography&
#"Spatial Demography" introduces core concepts and techniques for analyzing spatially referenced population data. Students learn about the spatial structure of social phenomenon and how to analyze and account for spatial relationships in formal analyses. We draw from examples in housing, health, and education to evaluate how populations are spatially distributed. The course covers methods for addressing spatial dependence and heterogeneity, as well as tools for describing spatial relationships (including various indices of segregation). A substantial portion of the course is also dedicated to practical skills for managing and presenting spatial data using GIS software, including geographic projections, geoprocessing, geocoding addresses, spatially joining layered data, and distance buffering.#
&SOC 8920 | Graduate Research&
#Work with a faculty member on a project that is related to your dissertation work.#
&SOC 8960 | Thesis Research&
#Work with chair of your committee on your dissertation work.#


$SPAN | Spanish$
&SPAN 1220 | Elementary Spanish II&
#While building language proficiency and accuracy through communicative activities, the course encourages students to actively interact with one another. The instructor facilitates communication and provides feedback and language learning strategies that guide students to take responsibility of their own learning and become active participants in the process. The course also introduces students to the many peoples and cultures of the Spanish-speaking world, prompting them to make comparisons with their own culture. Additionally, lectures provide students with opportunities to reflect on relevant grammar topics and assist students in developing language learning strategies. Class discussions are conducted entirely in Spanish. After 1220, students may take SPAN 1230, SPAN 2070, or SPAN 2090 depending on their LPS score.#
&SPAN 1230 | Continuing Spanish&
#SPAN 1230 is the third course in the Spanish language sequence. It is designed to help students progress from the "novice high" level to the "intermediate mid" level in speaking, listening, reading and writing.  The course is structured around four thematic units: fashion and art; the natural world; personal relationships; and health. In each unit, we will learn the vocabulary and grammar constructions that are necessary to talk about the unit's topic. Particular emphasis will be placed on the skill of giving and defending opinions. Throughout the semester, we will discuss and analyze a wide variety of art from the Hispanic world, including songs, fashion, visual arts, TV shows, films, performance art, newspaper articles, documentaries, film shorts and podcasts. The overall goal of this course is to develop students' ability to comprehend authentic materials in Spanish and formulate nuanced opinions about those materials.#
&SPAN 1250 | Spanish for Heritage Speakers I&
#This low-intermediate course expands Heritage students' confidence and competence in Spanish by providing opportunities to build upon the conversational skills they have. Through literary texts, other readings, music, films and the visual arts students broaden their vocabulary, improve grammatical accuracy, develop writing skills and enrich their understanding of the cultures of the Spanish-speaking world. The heritage student grew up speaking Spanish and finished high school in the U.S.#
&SPAN 1502 | Conversational Skills for Spanish in Global Contexts&
#This innovative course focuses on basic oral communication in Spanish. Emphasis is placed on developing speaking and listening skills and strategies in a culturally relevant context. It is intended for students with limited or no knowledge of Spanish and active class participation is required.#
&SPAN 2000 | Spanish for Heritage Speakers&
#Designed to expand bilingual Heritage students' knowledge of Spanish by providing them with ample opportunities to develop and improve each of the basic language skills, with a particular focus on writing vocabulary. The heritage student has at least one parent of Hispanic origin and grew up speaking Spanish at home; s/he also finished high school here in the US. After this course, students may take SPAN 2095.#
&SPAN 2070 | Intermediate Spanish for the Medical and Health Professions&
#Provides a conversational grammar review, with dialogues, debates, compositions, and authentic readings on health-related themes. Special attention is given to relevant cultural differences and how cultural notions may affect medical care and communication between doctor and patient. The objective of 2070 is to provide practice in real-life application, such as taking a medical history, calming a patient, and how to speak to a Hispanic patient in a culturally acceptable manner. After this course, a student may take or SPAN 2095.#
&SPAN 2090 | Intermediate Spanish I (Composition and Conversation)&
#This intermediate course develops accurate and idiomatic oral and written expression in a cultural context. Students achieve a higher level of syntactical and lexical competence through reading and discussing literary texts and viewing films. Particular emphasis is on writing and editing academic essays with peer/instructor feedback. Classes are in Spanish and the language is actively used in oral presentations and communicative, creative, and critical-thinking activities. Students review grammar structures on their own, with clarification and support of the instructor. After this course, students may take SPAN 2095.#
&SPAN 2095 | Spanish Intermediate Composition and Conversation II&
#This advanced-intermediate course is designed to prepare students for study abroad and is required for any Cornell CASA program in a Spanish speaking country.  It also serves as an entryway into the major, and advanced-level courses. Students study stylistics, analyze and discuss texts, view films, and acquire advanced reading strategies. Continued emphasis is on writing and editing academic essays with peer and instructor feedback. Classes are in Spanish, and the language is actively used in oral presentations and communicative, creative, and critical-thinking activities. Students review grammar structures on their own, although the instructor may clarify as needed.#
&SPAN 2130 | Advanced Spoken Spanish&
#This advanced course will focus on spoken Spanish in its formal and informal registers, regional dialects, and pronunciations.  Authentic texts from across different genres of film, newspapers, fiction, songs, and essays will be used to develop all skills with emphasis on oral production, as well as intercultural and pragmatic competence.  Students will further their fluency and accuracy by engaging in activities that might include debates, oral presentations, and interviews.#
&SPAN 2140 | Modern Spanish Survey&
#Introductory survey of modern Spanish literature. Students develop their analytical skills and learn basic literary concepts such as genre (drama, lyric, short story, and novel) and style (romanticism, realism, etc.) as well as male/female perspectives and the translation of literature to film language. The survey introduces students to Spain's cultural complexity through readings of works by authors representative of its diverse linguistic and literary traditions.#
&SPAN 2150 | Contemporary Latin American Survey&
#Readings and discussion of representative texts of the 19th and 20th centuries from various regions of Latin America. Among the authors considered are Sarmiento, Hernández, Martí, Darío, Agustini, Cortázar, García Márquez, Poniatowska, and Valenzuela.#
&SPAN 2170 | Early Modern Iberian Survey&
#This course explores major texts and themes of the Hispanic tradition from the 11th to the 17th centuries. We will examine general questions on literary analysis and the relationship between literature and history around certain events, such as medieval multicultural Iberia, the creation of the Spanish Inquisition in the 15th century and the expulsion of the Jews in 1492; the encounter between the Old and the New Worlds; the 'opposition' of high and low in popular culture, and of the secular and the sacred in poetry and prose. Readings may be drawn from medieval short stories and miracle collections; chivalric romances, Columbus, Lazarillo de Tormes, Cervantes, Lope de Vega, Calderón, and Sor Juana Inés de la Cruz, among others.#
&SPAN 2180 | Advanced Spanish Writing Workshop&
#This course, which is required for the major, is designed to help the learner develop increased accuracy and sophistication in writing in Spanish for academic purposes and continued oral practice in Spanish. To this end, there will be ample writing and revising practice, with a focus on specific grammatical and lexical areas, customized to the needs of the students enrolled in the course.  All writing will be based on a particular theme relating to Latin America with a focus on film, literary texts, newspaper readings and conducting an interview.#
&SPAN 2200 | Perspectives on Latin America&
#Interdisciplinary course offered every spring. Topics vary by semester, but readings always focus on current research in various disciplines and regions of Latin America. The range of issues addressed include the economic, social, cultural, and political trends and transitions in the area. In the weekly meetings, instructors and guest lecturers facilitate student discussions. Students taking the course are required to participate in all class discussions and write a research paper in their chosen focus area.#
&SPAN 2205 | Perspectives on Latin America in Spanish&
#Interdisciplinary course offered every spring.  Topics vary by semester, but readings always focus on current research in various disciplines and regions of Latin America. The range of issues addressed include the economic, social, cultural, and political trends and transitions in the area.  In the weekly meetings, instructors and guest lecturers facilitate student discussions.  Students taking the course are required to participate in all class discussions and write a research paper in their chosen focus area.#
&SPAN 2715 | A Global South: Chile, the Pacific and the World&
#This course examines the history of Chile from the 1700s to the present, always with an appreciation for its place in a broader world but always also with attention to its regional and national specificities and its links to the Pacific. Lectures will be paired with readings from various genres: fiction, poetry, journalism, manifestos, speeches, historical monographs, and short stories.#
&SPAN 3020 | Spanish Language Across the Curriculum (LAC)&
#This 1-credit optional course aims to expand the students' vocabulary, and advance their speaking and reading skills as well as enhance their knowledge and deepen their cultural understanding by supplementing non-language courses throughout the University.#
&SPAN 3170 | Creative Writing Workshop (in Spanish)&
#Focuses on the practice of narrative writing in Spanish. Explores what makes a novel and a short story work, paying close attention to narrative structure, plot, beginnings/endings, character development, theme, etc. Students read classic novels and short stories as points of departure for the discussion. Because the course is a workshop, students are expected to write their own fiction.#
&SPAN 3335 | Border Environments&
#This course focuses on a place and a concept where two of the most urgent issues of our times - migration and environmental degradation - converge, collide, and shape each other. It examines borders not as abstract lines on the map, but as dynamic hubs that connect human societies, politics, and cultures with the natural and built environments that we inhabit and transform. Through scholarly and creative work from an array of borders around the world, we will develop new theoretical approaches and methodological toolkits for rethinking and re-visioning borders in an era of climate change, toxic pollution, and mass extinction. The course encourages multi- and inter-disciplinary projects from students and will feature guests from diverse areas, disciplines, and practices.#
&SPAN 3570 | Spanish Photography&
#From portraiture to landscape, from the urban to rural, from the monumental to the mundane, this course explores Spanish photography, studying a range of artists and styles - formal, experimental, documentary, abstract, conceptual - between 19th century and the present.  At the heart of weekly discussions will be some key foundational questions: What is photography?  What is Spanish photography? How does one read a photograph?  What does photography, a supposedly visual medium, have to do with language, textuality and writing? What are different theories of photography?  This course is conducted in Spanish and designed for a diverse group of students, including those who already are familiar with the language of photography as well as those who have never studied photography before.#
&SPAN 3800 | Poetry and Poetics of the Americas&
#As globalization draws the Americas ever closer together, reshaping our sense of a common and uncommon American culture, what claims might be made for a distinctive, diverse poetry and poetics of the Americas? How might we characterize its dominant forms and alternative practices? What shared influences, affiliations, concerns and approaches might we find and what convergences and differences emerge? Ranging across North and South America, Central America and the Caribbean, this course will place in conversation such figures as Poe, Pound, Stein, Williams, Neruda, Vallejo, Borges, Parra, Bolaño, Césaire, Nourbese Philip, Hong, Long Soldier, Rankine, Lamar, Kaminsky, and Xie.#
&SPAN 4060 | Medieval Literary Economics&
#This course explores how the vocabulary (words like price and credit), structure (such as one of loss and gain), and ropes of medieval (and early modern) Spanish fiction speak to the emergence of different economic figures, reading texts from the 13th through the 17th centuries may include Poema de mio Cid, ibro de Apolonio, Yida de santa Maria Ogipciaca, Libro del conde Lucanon, poetry by Quevedo and Gongora, etc. and critical texts by Mauss, Derrida, Shell, Bataille, and others.#
&SPAN 4200 | Special Topics in Spanish Literature&
#Guided independent study of special topics. For undergraduates interested in special problems not covered in courses.#
&SPAN 4300 | Honors Work II&
#Consult director of undergraduate studies for more information.#
&SPAN 4577 | Desbordando: Reading Caribbean Waters in Latinx Studies&
#As Latinx studies continues to expand beyond its nationalistic origins and re-examines its geographical bounds, nuancing the role of borders within the field becomes urgent. This course probes at the primacy of the border in Latinx studies by centering Caribbean waters. As a liquid that refuses to succumb to the violence of fragmentation and instead embodies iterations of radical wholeness, water has an innate capacity to "undo" borders, a quality epitomized by the Spanish verb "desbordar" (to overflow). Through discussion and analysis of key Latinx cultural products we will gain an appreciation for the multiple ways in which water sustains provocative contradictions across borders regarding representations of historical memory, gender and sexuality, migration, race, and religion and spirituality, among others.#
&SPAN 4690 | Latin American and Latinx Environmentalisms&
#This course provides an introductory overview to environmental thought in Latin America and the Latinx diaspora. We will discuss pre-Columbian approaches to the nonhuman and colonialism's transformative impact on ecosystems in the hemispheric America's. We will then turn to contemporary debates about whether nature should be treated as a resource or as a commons, with special attention paid to Indigenous philosophers like Ailton Krenak, Latinx scholars like Laura Pulido, and visual artists like Laura Aguilar and Carolina Caycdo.#
&SPAN 4910 | Latin American Literature&
#This course examines Latin American literature in the context of the visual and auditory of the twentieth century and early twenty-first century, in which mass media such as photography, film, and the Internet have threatened writing's "representational privilege" as a technology of information processing and storage. We will analyze how literature has been able to sustain its visibilty in the competitive media ecology: the power of mass media fantasies to mold the individual's subjectivity, and of the visual image to manipulate reality; the relationship between literature and popular culture and the market place: and the young writers' engagement with the new technologies of the information age.#
&SPAN 6060 | Medieval Literary Economics&
#This course explores how the vocabulary (words like price and credit), structure (such as one of loss and gain), and tropes of medieval (and early modern) Spanish fiction speak to the emergence of different economic figures, reading texts from the 13th through the 17th centuries, and critical texts by Mauss, Derrida, Shell, Bataille, and others.#
&SPAN 6335 | Border Environments&
#This course focuses on a place and a concept where two of the most urgent issues of our times - migration and environmental degradation - converge, collide, and shape each other. It examines borders not as abstract lines on the map, but as dynamic hubs that connect human societies, politics, and cultures with the natural and built environments that we inhabit and transform. Through scholarly and creative work from an array of borders around the world, we will develop new theoretical approaches and methodological toolkits for rethinking and re-visioning borders in an era of climate change, toxic pollution, and mass extinction. The course encourages multi- and inter-disciplinary projects from students and will feature guests from diverse areas, disciplines, and practices.#
&SPAN 6400 | Special Topics in Spanish Literature&
#Guided independent study for graduate students. For graduates interested in special problems not covered in courses.#
&SPAN 6590 | Methods in Medieval&
#Topic: Writing Through the Forest in Search of Trees. Hello, Humanities Student! Are you a plotter or a pantser? Not sure? Come and join us to find out, and to gain valuable insight into what kind of a writer you are, and how to manage that writer most effectively and productively. This theme-centered methods seminar, through a communal focus on trees, woods, glens, and copses in the pre-modern world, will hone in on the most indispensable tool in the humanist's belt: writing. From the generation of ideas, to their organization into an outline (or a blueprint, or whatever euphemism we, as a group or as individuals, decide to apply to the initial, tangled pile of yarn) to the first draft. Followed by frank and constructive criticism of the initial draft as a group and in pairs, and then on to the part that all students—really, all humanists…okay, all writers—find to be the greatest struggle: "Your paper has some good ideas, but it really needs a rewrite." Now what do you do? As we write, and rewrite, we will also read widely. In addition to primary sources, scholarly articles and essays, we will include criticism, personal essay, theory, excerpts from fiction, and more, in an effort to open students' writing up to a myriad of possibilities for persuasive and compelling written communication.#
&SPAN 6880 | Latin American Poetry and Poetics&
#This is a graduate survey course of Latin American poetry from the Popol Vuh until today.  We will simultaneously study the construction of a poetic canon - major works, figures, and movements - and deconstruct it, examining popular productions, genre-defying works, and poetry in non-European languages. Guiding questions include: How does poetry in Latin America understand itself?  How does poetry in Latin America conceive of its role vis-à-vis society, politics, and literature more broadly?  Alongside figures such as Vallejo, Mistral, Sor Juana and Neruda, but also the anonymous author of the Apu Inka Atawallpaman.  Mapuche poet Daniels Catrileo and the singers of cielitos in the Southern Cone, we will ultimately ask: what is poetry after the invention of Latin America?#


$STS | Science & Technology Studies$
&STS 1123 | FWS: Technology and Society Topics&
#This seminar explores the ways in which Technology and Society shape one another and provides the opportunity to write extensively about this mutual shaping. Topics vary by section.#
&STS 1126 | FWS: Science and Society Topics&
#This seminar explores the ways in which Science and Society shape one another and provides the opportunity to write extensively about this mutual shaping. Topics vary by section.#
&STS 2011 | What Is Science? An Introduction to the Social Studies of Science and Technology&
#This course introduces some central ideas in the field of S&TS. It is aimed at students from any background who are challenged to think more critically about what counts as scientific knowledge and why, and how science and technology intervene in the wider world. It also serves as an introduction to majors in Biology and Society or in Science and Technology Studies. The course mixes lectures, discussions, writing, and other activities. The discussion sections are an integral part of the course and attendance is required. A series of take-home written assignments and quizzes throughout the semester comprise the majority of the grade.#
&STS 2061 | Ethics and the Environment&
#Politicians, scientists, and citizens worldwide face many environmental issues today, but they are neither simple nor straightforward. Moreover, there are many ways to understand how we have, do, and could value the environment from animal rights and wise use to deep ecology and ecofeminism. This class acquaints students with some of the challenging moral issues that arise in the context of environmental management and policy-making, both in the past and the present. Environmental concerns also highlight important economic, epistemological, legal, political, and social issues in assessing our moral obligations to nature as well as other humans. This course examines various perspectives expressed in both contemporary and historical debates over environmental ethics by exploring four central questions: What is nature? Who counts in environmental ethics? How do we know nature? Whose nature?#
&STS 2451 | Introduction to Bioethics&
#Bioethics is the study of ethical questions raised by advances in the medical field. Questions we'll discuss will include: Is it morally permissible to advance a patient's death, at his or her request, to reduce suffering? Is there a moral difference between killing someone and letting someone die? What ethical issues are raised by advance care planning? What is it to die? What forms of cognitive decline or physical change could you survive (and still be you)? On the flip side, were you ever a fetus? How should the rights of pregnant women be balanced against those of the fetus? Should parents be given control over the genetic make-up of their children? Are some forms of human enhancement morally troubling? Should we aim to be better than well? What is it to be disabled?  How should scarce health care resources or costly therapies be allocated to those in need? Should organ sales be permitted? Should medical treatment (or health insurance!) ever be compulsory, or is mandating treatment unacceptably paternalistic? Should doctors or hospitals be permitted to refuse to provide certain medical services that violate their consciences?#
&STS 2468 | Medicine, Culture, and Society&
#Medicine has become the language and practice through which we address a broad range of both individual and societal complaints. Interest in this medicalization of life may be one of the reasons that medical anthropology is currently the fastest-growing subfield in anthropology. This course encourages students to examine concepts of disease, suffering, health, and well-being in their immediate experience and beyond. In the process, students will gain a working knowledge of ecological, critical, phenomenological, and applied approaches used by medical anthropologists. We will investigate what is involved in becoming a doctor, the sociality of medicines, controversies over new medical technologies, and the politics of medical knowledge. The universality of biomedicine, or hospital medicine, will not be taken for granted, but rather we will examine the plurality generated by the various political, economic, social, and ethical demands under which biomedicine has developed in different places and at different times. In addition, biomedical healing and expertise will be viewed in relation to other kinds of healing and expertise. Our readings will address medicine in North America as well as other parts of the world. In class, our discussions will return regularly to consider the broad diversity of kinds of medicine throughout the world, as well as the specific historical and local contexts of biomedicine.#
&STS 2851 | Communication, Environment, Science, and Health&
#Environmental problems, public health issues, scientific research-in each of these areas, communication plays a fundamental role. From the media to individual conversations, from technical journals to textbooks, from lab notes to the web, communication helps define scientifically based social issues and research findings. This course examines the institutional and intellectual contexts, processes, and practical constraints on communication in the sciences.#
&STS 3011 | Life Sciences and Society&
#Biology and biotechnology are major influences on modern life. In addition, socio-political and historical conditions have shaped biological research and its applications in medicine, agriculture, environmental science, etc. Life science research is itself a social process involving complex human dynamics, different kinds of work and an array of social and natural systems. The course aims to introduce students to critical science and technology studies (S&TS) perspectives on the knowledge and practices of life sciences. The course is designed to prepare students for more advanced courses in the Biology & Society and S&TS majors, but students who do not plan to take further courses in those subjects can get critical insight into biology's profound role in both science and society.#
&STS 3601 | Ethical Issues in Engineering Practice&
#This course surveys a range of ethical issues that arise in professional engineering, and provides discussion-based practice in analyzing and addressing them. Using normative frameworks from professional codes, philosophical ethics, value-sensitive design, feminist theory, and science & technology studies, the course engages with a series of historical, current, and fictional case studies, across a wide variety of engineering disciplines. Specific topics to be discussed may include: privacy, consumer rights, smart cities, geoengineering, artificial intelligence, and cloning. Instruction is through a mix of lectures and discussions.#
&STS 3911 | Science in American Politics&
#This course reviews the changing relations between science, technology, and the state in America, focusing on the period from 1960 to the present. We will explore science-intensive policy controversies. We will also look at how science and technology are used in different institutional settings, such as Congress, the court system, and regulatory agencies. Among other issues, we will examine the tension between the concept of science as an autonomous system for producing knowledge and the concept of science as entangled with interest groups.#
&STS 3940 | AI and Storytelling&
#No description available.#
&STS 3991 | Undergraduate Independent Study&
#Applications for research projects are accepted by individual STS faculty members. Students may enroll for 1–4 credits in STS 3991 with written permission of the faculty supervisor and may elect either the letter grade or the S–U option. Information on faculty research, scholarly activities, and undergraduate opportunities are available in the Science & Technology Studies office, 303 Morrill Hall. Independent study credits may not be used in completion of the major requirements.#
&STS 4020 | Science, Medicine, and Media Technologies in East Asia&
#No description available.#
&STS 4041 | Controversies in Science, Technology and Medicine: What They Are and How to Study Them&
#Scientists and medical researchers try to avoid controversy whilst STS scholars argue that controversy can be a motor of scientific and medical change. There is a lengthy tradition of research into different forms of controversies within science, technology, and medicine. We will read selectively and discuss critically this literature particularly focusing upon controversies in medicine. Controversies we will examine include, how best to run clinical trials, alternative medicine, anti-vaxxers and the role of patients in developing new disease categories. We will also look at the ethics of carrying out medical research on the incarcerated and other disadvantaged groups. We will cover historical cases as well as contemporary ones.  Students will critically evaluate the main analytical approaches towards controversies and will choose one controversy to focus upon in their final paper.#
&STS 4260 | Computing On Earth: Planetary Dimensions and Consequence of Computing&
#This experimental, collaborative and seminar-based class will explore the material ethics of computing – the ways in which computing rests upon, emerges from, and ultimately returns to the earth, with deep and sometimes negative implications for sustainability, equity and justice in a rapidly changing world. Drawing on journalistic sources and academic fields ranging from anthropology, philosophy, public policy and environmental ethics to law, science and technology studies and human-computer interaction, the course will examine problems of computing-related sourcing and extraction, energy and consumption, and waste and repair, and how these are distributed and experienced in vastly different ways by different social groups and actors. Cases and examples will be drawn from near-to-hand and around the world.#
&STS 4412 | Conceptions of the Body in Medicine and Healing&
#The working of the human body is a universal phenomenon, yet different medical traditions have vastly different conceptions of what a body is. How can something so intimate and tangible like the body be understood so contrastingly in medicine across the world? With examples from classical Greek and ancient Chinese medicine to contemporary practices in biomedicine, Ayurveda, Unani and others, the course questions the everyday, taken for granted assumptions like the distinction between mind and the body, or what counts as a healthy body. It then explores how these multiple perceptions of the body in medicine are often culturally informed and are deeply linked with experiences of personhood and identity.#
&STS 4440 | Feminist Science Studies&
#No description available.#
&STS 4476 | Carceral Worlds: Policing, Prisons, and Securitization&
#Grounded in anthropological and interdisciplinary analyses of policing, prisons, and security, this course aims to account for how carcerality shapes our worlds. Attentive to specificity and variability across place and time, we will consider how carceral logics take hold and expand, and how they are contested and reimagined. We will pay particular attention to the interrelatedness of race and carcerality; lived experiences of carcerality, including those of people imprisoned in various contexts and those engaged in carceral work; the intersections between carcerality and science and technology; and abolitionist frameworks that address the limitations and constitutive oppressions of carcerality as they radically reimagine other possibilities.#
&STS 4661 | Public Communication of Science and Technology&
#Explores the structure, meanings, and implications of "public communication of science and technology" (PCST). Examines the contexts in which PCST occurs, looks at motivations and constraints of those involved in producing information about science for nonprofessional audiences, and analyzes the functions of PCST. Ties existing ideas about PCST to general communication research and leads to developing new knowledge about PCST.#
&STS 4703 | The Glitch: Errors, Disability, and the Edges of Digital Media&
#A "glitch" is when something goes "wrong" in digital media—sometimes, however, it is precisely when something "fails" that can tell us about the structures and forces that underlie that media. In this course we'll be exploring a wide variety of examples of how media creators, artists, hackers, game developers, Deaf and disability activists, and other marginalized groups from across the world (with a particular focus on Japan) have used "glitches" to tell us something new about the digital, looking at works ranging from electronic literature to online horror stories to experimental video games and installation art.#
&STS 4992 | Honors Project II&
#Students must register for the 4 credits each semester (BSOC 4991-BSOC 4992) for a total of 8 credits. After the first semester, students receive a letter grade of "R"; a letter grade for both semesters is submitted at the end of the second semester whether or not the student completes a thesis or is recommended for honors. Minimally, an honors thesis outline and bibliography should be completed during the first semester. In consultation with the advisors, the director of undergraduate studies will evaluate whether the student should continue working on an honors project. Students should note that these courses are to be taken in addition to those courses that meet the regular major requirements. If students do not complete the second semester of the honors project, they must change the first semester to independent  study to clear the "R" and receive a grade. Otherwise, the "R" will remain on their record and prevent them from graduating.#
&STS 6020 | Science, Medicine, and Media Technologies in East Asia&
#No description available.#
&STS 6311 | Qualitative Research Methods for Studying Science, Technology, and Medicine&
#In this Graduate seminar we will discuss the nature, politics and basic assumptions underlying qualitative research. We will examine a selection of qualitative methods ranging from interviewing, oral history, ethnography, participant observation, archival research and visual methods. We will also discuss the relationship between theory and method. All stages of a research project will be discussed - choice of research topic and appropriate methods; human subject concerns and permissions; issues regarding doing research; as well as the process of writing up and publishing research findings.#
&STS 6440 | Feminist Science Studies&
#No description available.#
&STS 6561 | Technologies of Valuation&
#No description available.#
&STS 6703 | The Glitch: Errors, Disability, and the Edges of Digital Media&
#A "glitch" is when something goes "wrong" in digital media—sometimes, however, it is precisely when something "fails" that can tell us about the structures and forces that underlie that media. In this course we'll be exploring a wide variety of examples of how media creators, artists, hackers, game developers, Deaf and disability activists, and other marginalized groups from across the world (with a particular focus on Japan) have used "glitches" to tell us something new about the digital, looking at works ranging from electronic literature to online horror stories to experimental video games and installation art.#
&STS 6991 | Graduate Independent Study&
#Applications and information are available in 303 Morrill Hall.#
&STS 7001 | Science Studies and the Politics of Science&
#The field of Science & Technology Studies (STS) has called attention to the contingent and socially embedded character of knowledge and technology. This seminar explores the consequences of these findings for the analysis of politics, considering such issues as trust and skepticism, political and legal agency, knowledge ordering the politics of democratic societies. What role does technical knowledge play in underwriting democracy? What problems of legitimacy arise from the interpretive flexibility of knowledge? How are stable settlements (sometimes) achieved in contexts of contingency? How are science and technology implicated in structuring power relations and shaping relationships between citizens and the state? This year the special focus of the seminar will focus on questions about the allocation of control over knowledge.#
&STS 7007 | STS Research II: A Course for Second-Year PhD Students in the Field&
#The goal of this year-long course is to train students in the process of conducting research in STS, providing hands on experience and discussions of the research process. Students will plan and execute an appropriately scaled empirical research project in STS and complete a "second-year paper" by the end of the Spring semester. They will refine initial research concepts into more specific research questions; review literature relevant to their topic; identify data sources and collect data and materials; address research ethics and obtain IRB approval (if needed); manage the inevitable contingencies of research; and write and revise their second-year papers.#
&STS 7476 | Carceral Worlds: Policing, Prisons, and Securitization&
#Grounded in anthropological and interdisciplinary analyses of policing, prisons, and security, this course aims to account for how carcerality shapes our worlds. Attentive to specificity and variability across place and time, we will consider how carceral logics take hold and expand, and how they are contested and reimagined. We will pay particular attention to the interrelatedness of race and carcerality; lived experiences of carcerality, including those of people imprisoned in various contexts and those engaged in carceral work; the intersections between carcerality and science and technology; and abolitionist frameworks that address the limitations and constitutive oppressions of carcerality as they radically reimagine other possibilities.#
&STS 7937 | Proseminar in Peace Studies&
#The Proseminar in Peace Studies offers a multidisciplinary review of issues related to peace and conflict at the graduate level. The course is led by the director of the Judith Reppy Institute for Peace and Conflict Studies and is based on the Institute's weekly seminar series, featuring outside visitors and Cornell faculty.#


$STSCI | Statistical Science$
&STSCI 2100 | Introductory Statistics and Data Science&
#Statistics is about understanding the world through data. We are surrounded by data, so there is a lot to understand. Covers data exploration and display, data gathering methods, probability, and statistical inference methods through contingency tables and linear regression. The emphasis is on thinking scientifically, understanding what is commonly done with data (and doing some of it for yourself), and laying a foundation for further study. Students learn to use statistical software and simulation tools to discover fundamental results. They use computers regularly; the test includes both multimedia materials and a software package. This course does not focus on data from any particular discipline, but will use real-world examples from a wide variety of disciplines and current events.#
&STSCI 2110 | Statistical Methods for the Social Sciences II&
#A second course in statistics that emphasizes applications to the social sciences. Topics include simple linear regression, multiple linear regression (theory, model building, and model diagnostics), and the analysis of variance. Computer packages are used extensively.#
&STSCI 2150 | Introductory Statistics for Biology&
#This course provides an introduction to data analysis and statistical inference illustrated with biological applications. The computer labs will teach graphical analysis and statistical computation using R. Topics include graphical display, populations and sampling, probability distributions, expectation and variance, estimation, testing, correlation, regression, contingency tables, and the design of experiments. Emphasis is on concepts and the careful modeling of biological data, so that statistical methods are applied properly, pitfalls are avoided, and sound conclusions are reached.#
&STSCI 3080 | Probability Models and Inference&
#This course provides an introduction to probability and parametric inference. Topics include: random variables, standard distributions, the law of large numbers, the central limit theorem, likelihood-based estimation, the method of moments, sampling distributions and confidence intervals.#
&STSCI 3110 | Probability Models and Inference for the Social Sciences&
#This course provides an introduction to probability and parametric inference. Topics include: random variables, standard distributions, the law of large numbers, the central limit theorem, likelihood-based estimation, sampling distributions and hypothesis testing.#
&STSCI 3200 | Statistics II&
#Applies linear statistical methods to quantitative problems addressed in biological and environmental research. Methods include linear regression, inference, model assumption evaluation, the likelihood approach, matrix formulation, generalized linear models, single-factor and multifactor analysis of variance (ANOVA), and a brief foray into nonlinear modeling. Carries out applied analysis in a statistical computing environment.#
&STSCI 3510 | Stochastic Processes for Decision-Making&
#Uses basic concepts and techniques of random processes to construct models for a variety of problems of practical interest. Topics include the Poisson process, Markov chains, renewal theory, models for queuing, and reliability.#
&STSCI 3600 | Integrated Ethics in Data Science&
#Integrated Ethics in Data Science examines your responsibilities in data analysis. Our investigation starts with the aggregated impacts of data science on fairness, privacy, and justice outcomes for groups and individuals. Use of supplied data and applications are analyzed using agency, moral imagination, and virtue ethics. Responsible practices in data science, codes of conduct, and current regulations will be applied. Evaluation of the act of speaking up, supporting others and working with an ethics committee will develop professional skills. Case studies from legal issues, policy concerns, and industry practices provide problems to evaluate the individual choices that led to the results. Course success depends on your frequent written work, engagement in small group discussions, and planning for professional practice.#
&STSCI 3740 | Data Mining and Machine Learning&
#We start off with a detailed refresher for Linear Regression. We then turn to popular methods for classification including Logistic Regression and Discriminant Analysis. Finally, we consider more advanced topics which may include - depending on the audience - Resampling Methods, Tree-based Methods, or Support Vector Machines. The statistics software R is introduced and used for applications.#
&STSCI 4090 | Theory of Statistics&
#Introduction to classical theory of parametric statistical inference that builds on the material covered in BTRY 3080. Topics include: sampling distributions, principles of data reduction, likelihood, parameter estimation, hypothesis testing, interval estimation, and basic asymptotic theory.#
&STSCI 4100 | Multivariate Analysis&
#This course is on the basics of multivariate statistical analysis. The focus ison the applied side, and the students will learn by examples of multiple real-life datasets. Studentswill learn to visualize the datasets and conduct simple statistical analysis using linear/nonlinearmethods. We will also cover web-scraping and data cleaning.#
&STSCI 4520 | Statistical Computing&
#This course is designed to provide students with an introduction to statistical computing. The class will cover the basics of programming; numerical methods for optimization and linear algebra and their application to statistical estimation, generating random variables, bootstrap, jackknife and permutation methods, Markov Chain Monte Carlo methods, Bayesian inference and computing with latent variables.#
&STSCI 4550 | Applied Time Series Analysis&
#Introduces statistical tools for the analysis of time-dependent data. Data analysis and application will be an integral part of this course. Topics include linear, nonlinear, seasonal, multivariate modeling, and financial time series.#
&STSCI 4850 | Data Science Consulting&
#No description available.#
&STSCI 4970 | Undergraduate Supervised Teaching&
#Students assist in teaching a course appropriate to their previous training. Students meet with a discussion or laboratory section and regularly discuss objectives with the course instructor.#
&STSCI 4980 | Tutorial in Actuarial Statistics&
#Problem solving sessions to prepare students for the first four actuarial examinations (probability, financial mathematics, statistical modeling, and risk management).#
&STSCI 4990 | Undergraduate Individual Study in Statistics&
#Course consists of individual tutorial study selected by faculty. Because topics usually change year to year this course may be repeated for credit.#
&STSCI 4995 | Internship in Data Science&
#Students planning internships related to Statistics and Data Science are encouraged to enroll in the departmental internship course.#
&STSCI 4999 | Undergraduate Dissertation Research&
#Research at the undergraduate level.#
&STSCI 5010 | Applied Statistical Computation with SAS&
#This course teaches the basics of SAS (Statistical Analysis System) programming and the SAS Enterprise Miner software.  This course is composed two modules.  The first module, in the first 12 weeks, covers the objectives tested on the SAS Base Programming for SAS 9 Exam, including basic SAS programming concepts, producing reports, creating and modifying SAS data sets, reading various types of raw data and other data handling techniques. At the end of module 1, all the students will take the SAS Base Programming for SAS 9 Exam, which is administered by the MPS Program in Applied Statistics on the Cornell campus in conjunction with the SAS Institute, Inc. The second module, in the last three weeks, introduces the SAS Enterprise Miner software and cluster analysis. Students will learn how to use the SAS Enterprise Miner software and SAS procedures to do cluster analysis.#
&STSCI 5065 | Big Data Management and Analysis&
#Concepts, challenges, and industry trends of big data, with a focus on the Hadoop system. Topics include: basics of the Apache Hadoop platform and Hadoop ecosystem; the Hadoop distributed file system (HDFS); MapReduce or its alternative, a parallel programming model for distributed processing of large data sets; common big data tools, such as Pig (a procedural data processing language for Hadoop parallel computation), Hive (a declarative SQL-like language to handle Hadoop jobs), HBase (the most popular NoSQL database), and YARN; case studies; and  integration of Hadoop with statistical software packages, e.g., SAS and R.#
&STSCI 5080 | Probability Models and Inference&
#This course provides an introduction to probability and parametric inference. Topics include: random variables, standard distributions, the law of large numbers, the central limit theorem, likelihood-based estimation, sampling distributions and hypothesis testing, as well as an introduction to Bayesian methods. Some assignments may involve computation using the R programming language.#
&STSCI 5090 | Theory of Statistics&
#Introduction to classical theory of parametric statistical inference that builds on the material covered in BTRY 3080. Topics include sampling distributions, principles of data reduction, likelihood, parameter estimation, hypothesis testing, interval estimation, and basic asymptotic theory.#
&STSCI 5110 | Statistical Methods for the Social Sciences II&
#Second course in statistics that emphasizes applications to the social sciences. Topics include simple linear regression, multiple linear regression (theory, model building, and model diagnostics), and the analysis of variance. Computer packages are used extensively.#
&STSCI 5111 | Multivariate Analysis&
#This course is on the basics of multivariate statistical analysis. The focus ison the applied side, and the students will learn by examples of multiple real-life datasets. Studentswill learn to visualize the datasets and conduct simple statistical analysis using linear/nonlinearmethods. We will also cover web-scraping and data cleaning.#
&STSCI 5150 | Introductory Statistics for Biology&
#This course provides an introduction to data analysis and statistical inference illustrated with biological applications. The computer labs will teach graphical analysis and statistical computation using R. Topics include graphical display, populations and sampling, probability distributions, expectation and variance, estimation, testing, correlation, regression, contingency tables, and the design of experiments. Emphasis is on concepts and the careful modeling of biological data, so that statistical methods are applied properly, pitfalls are avoided, and sound conclusions are reached.#
&STSCI 5201 | Statistics II&
#Applies linear statistical methods to quantitative problems addressed in biological and environmental research. Methods include linear regression, inference, model assumption evaluation, the likelihood approach, matrix formulation, generalized linear models, single-factor and multifactor analysis of variance (ANOVA), and a brief foray into nonlinear modeling. Carries out applied analysis in a statistical computing environment.#
&STSCI 5520 | Statistical Computing&
#This course is designed to provide students with an introduction to statistical computing. The class will cover the basics of programming; numerical methods for optimization and linear algebra and their application to statistical estimation, generating random variables, bootstrap, jackknife and permutation methods, Markov Chain Monte Carlo methods, Bayesian inference and computing with latent variables.#
&STSCI 5550 | Applied Time Series Analysis&
#Introduces statistical tools for the analysis of time-dependent data. Data analysis and application will be an integral part of this course. Topics include linear, nonlinear, seasonal, multivariate modeling, and financial time series.#
&STSCI 5600 | Integrated Ethics in Data Science&
#Integrated Ethics in Data Science examines your responsibilities in data analysis. Our investigation starts with the aggregated impacts of data science on fairness, privacy, and justice outcomes for groups and individuals. Use of supplied data and applications are analyzed using agency, moral imagination, and virtue ethics. Responsible practices in data science, codes of conduct, and current regulations will be applied. Evaluation of the act of speaking up, supporting others and working with an ethics committee will develop professional skills. Case studies from legal issues, policy concerns, and industry practices provide problems to evaluate the individual choices that led to the results. Course success depends on your frequent written work, engagement in small group discussions, and planning for professional practice.#
&STSCI 5640 | Statistics for Financial Engineering&
#Regression, ARIMA, GARCH, stochastic volatility, and factor models. Calibration of financial engineering models, estimation of diffusion models, estimation of risk measures, multivariate models and copulas, bayesian statistics. Students are instructed in the use of R software; prior knowledge of R is helpful but not required. This course is intended for M.Eng. students in financial engineering and assumes some familiarity with finance and financial engineering. Students not in the financial engineering program are welcome if they have a suitable background. Students with no background in finance should consider taking ORIE 4630 instead.#
&STSCI 5740 | Data Mining and Machine Learning&
#We start off with a detailed refresher for Linear Regression. We then turn to popular methods for classification including Logistic Regression and Discriminant Analysis. Finally, we consider more advanced topics which may include - depending on the audience - Resampling Methods, Tree-based Methods, or Support Vector Machines. The statistics software R is introduced and used for applications.#
&STSCI 5955 | Realtime Project Management&
#This course is designed to run in parallel to STSCI 5999 (Applied Statistics MPS Data Analysis Project) and is a required part of the final-semester client project for MPS students. In this course students from each project team meet at regular intervals and briefly present their project milestones such as initiation of the project, data cleaning, analysis, etc. as well as raise any concern regarding any roadblock they are facing.#
&STSCI 5980 | Tutorial in Actuarial Statistics&
#Problem solving sessions to prepare students for the first four actuarial examinations (probability, financial mathematics, statistical modeling, and risk management).#
&STSCI 5990 | Directed Studies in Applied Statistics&
#For individual or group research projects conducted under the direction of a member of STSCI faculty or instructors in a special area of statistical science that is not covered by regular course offerings.#
&STSCI 5995 | Internship in Data Science&
#Students planning internships related to Statistics and Data Science are encouraged to enroll in the departmental internship course.#
&STSCI 5999 | Applied Statistics MPS Data Analysis Project&
#It is a long-term, in-depth statistical analysis of real-world dataset using various statistical methods and computer packages (such as SAS, R, SPSS, etc.). Students work in teams (of maximum size 4) to solve business, managerial or scientific problems for clients. Projects are assigned by Dept. of Statistical Science to teams. Each team has a dedicated faculty adviser, who supervises the projects and assigns grades. Grades are assigned individually to team members. In special cases teams may collaborate with groups in other Departments, e.g., M.Eng. project teams.#
&STSCI 6020 | Statistical Methods II&
#No description available.#
&STSCI 6730 | Mathematical Statistics I&
#This course will focus on the finite sample theory of statistical inference, emphasizing estimation, hypothesis testing, and confidence intervals.  Specific topics include: uniformly minimum variance unbiased estimators, minimum risk equivariant estimators, Bayes estimators, minimax estimators, the Neyman-Pearson theory of hypothesis testing, and the construction of optimal invariant tests.#
&STSCI 6750 | Probability II for Statistics&
#This course will discuss several probabilistic results and techniques that are useful in mathematical statistics. Limit theorems and stochastic inequalities are two key components of the course. Topics to be covered include complements of basic limit theorems (Skorohod representation theorem, Berry-Esseen bound, Delta method), empirical distribution and quantile functions, U-statistics, bootstrap (and subsampling if time permits), stochastic convergence in metric spaces, and some elements of modern empirical process theory.#
&STSCI 6780 | Bayesian Statistics and Data Analysis&
#Priors, posteriors, Bayes estimators, decision theory, asymptotic theory, Bayes factors, credible regions, hierarchical models, nonparametric Bayes, computational methods, Bayesian robustness, and applications. This is a theory-oriented course intended for PhD students. For a more applied introduction to Bayesian statistics, students should take STSCI 4780, Bayesian Data Analysis: Principles and Practice, which is offered in the spring.#
&STSCI 6970 | Individual Graduate Study in Statistics&
#Individual tutorial study selected by the faculty. Because topics usually change from year to year, this course may be repeated for credit.#
&STSCI 7951 | Advanced Statistical Consulting&
#This course focuses on practical data analysis involving advanced statistical methods applied to real datasets. Students will be required to attend meetings with Cornell Statistical Consulting Unit (CSCU) clients. Emphasis will be placed on report writing, communicating effectively and explaining methodology and results to non-statisticians. Project lengths will vary based on the scope of the problems and could range from several short projects to a single semester-long project. Students will be required to collaborate in teams on some projects.#
&STSCI 7999 | Graduate Level Dissertation Research&
#Research at the Ph.D. Level.#
&STSCI 9999 | Doctoral Level Dissertation Research&
#Doctoral Level Dissertation Research.#


$SWAHL | Swahili$
&SWAHL 1100 | Elementary Swahili I&
#Elementary Swahili provides a foundation in listening, speaking, reading, and writing the basic grammatical structures and vocabulary. Swahili (Kiswahili) is spoken in the East and Central parts of Africa. It is an official and national language in Tanzania, and in Kenya. During a first semester course, students engage in short conversation and communicative tasks, such as, greetings, introduction, daily routines, shopping, etc. Students learn to comprehend short and simple utterances about topics pertaining to basic personal information and immediate setting in day to day life. A Swahili second semester increases your oral fluency, grammar, vocabulary, writing, reading, and listening skills. All listening exercises will aim at preparing students to speak. Be ready to actively participate in conversations, to express yourself orally, and write stories/compositions. Literature and Cultural materials are incorporated into the course, along with audio, video, and web-based materials.#
&SWAHL 1109 | Strategies for Swahili Abroad&
#This course introduces the Swahili language, predominantly spoken in East Africa, and its culture. The course provides basic Swahili oral communicative skills on routine social demand topics, orients students to the Swahili culture, and navigates East Africa. The course is intended for those who want to gain insight into East African cultures and /or travel to the countries.#
&SWAHL 2102 | Intermediate Swahili II&
#Intermediate Swahili levels I and II in general impart speaking, listening, reading, and writing skills beyond Swahili elementary level to participate with ease and confidence in familiar topics and exchange information on unfamiliar topics. Students are assigned communicative tasks such as respond to a situation with a short text and take part in a discussion after viewing short video clips and prompts to elicit speaking and listening competence and cultural awareness responses beyond elementary level. The language and cultural scenarios practiced are designed to help students demonstrate language responses beyond familiar topics, and to feel comfortable conversing with Swahili native speakers, as well as to blend in and feel welcomed as part of the community while exploring different topics such as acquaintanceship, relationships, health, festivals, education, sports, housing, politics, commerce, travel, etc. Short stories are used to depict cultural aspects such as cultural expressions, proverbs, sayings, and riddles. Literature and cultural materials are incorporated into the course, along with audio-visual and web-based material. In this course, students have an opportunity to participate in language conversation outside the classroom and explore the opportunities for study abroad in East Africa. Swahili Elementary I and II are prerequisite for this course. By the end of this course, students should be able to reach proficiency level Intermediate High according to the American Council on the Teaching of Foreign Languages (ACTFL) www.actfl.org#


$SWED | Swedish$
&SWED 1220 | Elementary Swedish II&
#This course is a continuation of Elementary Swedish I. Students have an opportunity to practice listening, speaking, reading and writing in Swedish. Students learn to provide information about their opinions and feelings, their families, their immediate environment and their daily activities.#


$SYSEN | Systems Engineering$
&SYSEN 1900 | Systems Engineering Project for First-Years&
#Project experience for students who want to pursue a particular analytical, computational, or experimental project experience outside of regular courses. An engineering report on the project is required of each student. Intended for first-year students on project teams and for project team members performing non-technical tasks.#
&SYSEN 4900 | Systems Engineering Project for Undergraduates&
#Project experience for students who want to pursue a particular analytical, computational, or experimental project experience outside of regular courses, or for informal instruction supplementing that given in regular courses. An engineering report on the project is required of each student. Students are expected to spend 3-4 hours per week per credit hour working on the project. Intended for sophomores, juniors, and seniors on project teams performing technical tasks.#
&SYSEN 5120 | Energy and Climate Scenario Analysis&
#This course examines quantitative methods to develop energy and climate-change mitigation policies. Students will learn about widely used software tools in the filed, such as LEAP and OSeMOSYS, to assess these policies. The course covers the analysis of energy demand and supply for different economic sectors. Mathematical models will be utilized to identify optimal policies and energy scenarios. Finally, students will learn how to perform a cost-benefit analysis to quantify the effects of the identified scenarios.#
&SYSEN 5130 | Service System Modeling and Design&
#Service systems arise primarily from the service sector of the economy. Examples are contact centers (also known as call centers), airlines, insurance and healthcare. This course describes techniques that are useful in the analysis and design of such systems. The class is structured around a number of cases. The emphasis is on modeling, solving the models, and interpreting the results. Both operational and strategic decisions are covered through appropriate examples.#
&SYSEN 5140 | Economic and Financial Decisions for Engineers&
#This course aims at empowering engineers with training in accounting, finance and engineering economics needed to make financial decisions concerning capital investments that have prolonged monetary impacts. These methods are suitable for problems involving capital allocations and investments as well as evaluation and selection of engineering projects. Students learn how to define and select appropriate economic criteria for the evaluation of alternatives as well as how to use proper methods for evaluating alternatives under deterministic conditions.#
&SYSEN 5170 | Energy Policies for Systems Transition&
#How are policies defined and implemented? What role do policies play in the systems transition? Where and how to seize opportunities and foster sustainable solutions? How do technology developers, markets, companies and households respond to policy incentives? This course provides an understanding about the strategic role of policies, strategies and planning processes in international and national contexts with a strong focus on the world-critical topic of energy as the course's primary application area.#
&SYSEN 5200 | Systems Analysis Behavior and Optimization&
#This is an advanced course in the application of analytical methodologies and tools to the analysis and optimization of complex systems. On completion of this course, students should be able to use probability and statistics as a modeling and analysis tool for systems exhibiting uncertainty; be able to use algorithms and dynamic programming to model and optimize systems with a recursive structure; be able to use optimization tools to optimize complex systems and tune parameters.#
&SYSEN 5250 | Systems Integration, Verification, and Validation&
#This course examines methods and approaches to integration, verification, and validation of complex systems. Systems integration focuses on the interfaces, data flows, and control mechanisms. Verification is the formal process of obtaining objective evidence that a system or system element, product or service fulfils its specified requirements and characteristics during the lifecycle. Validation is used to provide objective evidence that the system, product or service fulfills its business or mission objectives and stakeholder requirements, achieving its intended use in its intended operational environment. Topics include the processes for integrating, verifying, and validating a set of system elements into a system, system-of-systems, product or service that satisfies system stakeholder requirements, system requirements, architecture, and design. Statistical methods and modeling and simulation are presented as quantitative methods applied to system integration, verification, and validation. Complex systems are addressed at larger scales including integration, verification, and validation of combinations of novel, evolving, and legacy components, subsystems, systems, and systems-of-systems. Covers the application of methods and techniques from traditional systems to more complex systems including consideration of multiple disciplines, varying scales, and uncertainty.#
&SYSEN 5270 | Sociotechnical System Modeling and Simulation&
#This transdisciplinary course provides an in-depth learning experience on the fundamentals of the modeling and simulation of social and sociotechnical systems. This course welcomes students from all academic disciplines (especially outside of engineering) if they have had experience with system architecture and/or systems thinking in any domain application. System perspectives are increasingly being used to engage with the complexity of environmental, social, economic and cultural dimensions of technology, and simulation is a powerful tool in the development of policies that affect these dimensions. Students do not need to have strong computational experience before taking this course, but they need to have a strong systems background. Using system dynamics modeling, this course teaches how to develop simulations of the sociotechnical dimensions of technology design, development and implementation with a strong focus on inclusive, participatory, stakeholder-centric modeling (e.g., Living Labs). In a hybrid asynchronous lab-based environment, students in this course will gain practical skills in using a modeling process to develop models and simulations of sociotechnical systems.#
&SYSEN 5290 | Transdisciplinarity and Systems&
#Transdisciplinarity involves gaining insights about patterns that occur across or connect disciplines. The course presents multiple perspectives to study the nature, scope, value, and potential of transdisciplinarity as there is no existing universal definition, theory, or methodology. The course examines several kinds of disciplinarity as approaches to problem solving. Problems are investigated in the areas of society, engineering, and nature. Topics include characteristics, management, methodologies, analysis, and tools for understanding and applying approaches. Complex systems are addressed with consideration of interdisciplinary systems, systems-of-systems, varying scales, uncertainty, and nonlinearity.#
&SYSEN 5350 | Multidisciplinary Design Optimization&
#This course presents a rigorous, quantitative multidisciplinary design methodology that incorporates the creative side of the design process. Through a topic of your choice, learn how to use multidisciplinary design optimization (MDO) to create advanced and complex engineering systems that must be competitive in performance and life-cycle value. Multidisciplinary design aspects appear frequently during the conceptual and preliminary design of complex new systems and products, where different disciplines (e.g. structures, aerodynamics, controls, optics, costing, manufacturing, environmental science, marketing, etc.) have to be tightly coupled in order to arrive at a competitive solution. This course is designed to be fundamentally different from most traditional university optimization courses which focus mainly on the mathematics and algorithms for search. Focus will be equally strong on all three aspects of the problem: (i) the multidisciplinary character of engineering systems, (ii) design of these complex systems, and (iii) tools for optimization. Students will demonstrate mastery of the subject by working in small teams on a term project to apply the multidisciplinary design optimization principles to design and optimize an engineering system of their choice.#
&SYSEN 5370 | Sustainable Life Cycle Management&
#No description available.#
&SYSEN 5400 | Theory and Practice of Systems Architecture&
#Every system has an architecture (its essence, or DNA), i.e., a high-level abstraction of its design that provides a unifying concept for detailed design and commits most of the system's performance and lifecycle cost. This course presents the frameworks, methods, and tools required to analyze and synthesize system architectures. The course has a theory part that emphasizes synergies between humans and computers in the architecture process, and a practical part based on a long project and guest lectures by real system architects. The theory part covers topics such as architecture views, layers and projections, stakeholder networks, dealing with fuzziness, automatic concept generation, architecture space exploration, patterns and styles, heuristics, and knowledge engineering. The practice part focuses on special topics such as commonality, platforming, reuse, upstream and downstream influences, and software architecture.#
&SYSEN 5420 | Network Systems and Games&
#Network systems pervade our society in both social and technological contexts. On the one hand, social networks play a central role in the transmission of information and viruses with fundamental consequences for product marketing, technology adoption, voting decisions, spread of false news and epidemiology. On the other hand, network topology fundamentally affects the performance and resilience properties of large-scale multi-agent systems, such as the electric power grid, the internet of things, traffic or robotic sensor networks.#
&SYSEN 5500 | Systems Modeling Language: Fundamentals and Practice&
#Fundamentals and practice of Systems Modeling Language (SysML) for graphically specifying, analyzing, designing, and verifying complex systems. The focus and vision is on building unambiguous and computable models of systems behavior and structure that capture systems requirements and specifications.#
&SYSEN 5520 | Power Systems and Market Operations&
#Examines the operations of electric power systems, the smart grid, and electricity markets. Topics include modeling of power systems, power flow analysis, economic dispatch, optimal power flow, unit commitments, electricity markets, demand response, smart grid technology, and transactive energy.#
&SYSEN 5640 | AI for Healthcare System Engineering&
#The purpose of this class is to teach students the fundamentals of artificial intelligence (AI) technologies and how they can be applied in various healthcare system engineering problems. We will introduce conventional AI technologies including supervised learning for tasks like clinical risk prediction and computer assisted diagnosis, unsupervised learning methods for subtype identification and pattern discovery; as well as deep learning methods, including the basic perceptron and feedforward neural networks for standard vectorized data, convolutional neural networks for analyzing medical images, recurrent neural networks and transformer for analyzing event sequences and temporal signals, and graph neural networks for analyzing networks and relational data. The class includes both lectures introducing algorithms and theories, and programming exercises to get hands-on experience on implementing these algorithms with Python.#
&SYSEN 5680 | Optimal Control and Decision Theory&
#Covers the basic models and solution approaches for individual and team decision-making problems under uncertainty and provide a unified mathematical treatment of the subject, suitable for a broad engineering audience. The material will consider optimal decision-making of systems over a finite- and an infinite-time horizon. Topics include: (1) Stochastic optimization: finite- and infinite-horizon problems with complete or partial state information, separation principle, dual control; (2) Team Theory: mathematical framework of cooperating members in which all members have the same objective yet different information; (3) Reinforcement learning:  approximate dynamic programming, forward references to the approximate dynamic programming formalism, learning policies.#
&SYSEN 5700 | Special Topics in Systems Engineering&
#Supervised study by individuals or small groups of one or more specialized topics not covered in regular courses.#
&SYSEN 5740 | Design Thinking for Complex Systems&
#In this project-based class, interdisciplinary teams will combine design thinking and systems engineering techniques to define and solve complex systems and organization problems.#
&SYSEN 5888 | Deep Learning&
#Covers the basic concepts, models, methods, and applications of deep learning. Topics include basics of artificial neural networks, training of neural networks, convolutional neural networks, recurrent neural networks, generative models, deep reinforcement learning, and deep learning hardware and software packages. Application and methodology topics include deep learning for pharmaceutical discovery, deep learning for process control, deep learning for molecular design, deep learning for material screening, deep learning for product yield and quality estimation, and deep learning for optimization.#
&SYSEN 5900 | Systems Engineering Design Project&
#A design project that incorporates the principles of systems engineering for a complex system. Projects are performed by teams of students working together to meet the requirements of the project.#
&SYSEN 6100 | Systems Seminar Series&
#This is a weekly seminar course designed to give graduate students experience in improving their skills in presenting their research, judging peers' and field experts' research, as well as learning to accurately dissect and summarize the main points of a research talk. Being part of the Systems Engineering program, this course will strongly focus on developing the ability to present research in a broader context or as it relates to a larger system or process, and communicate the importance of the students' work to a more varied audience; a particularly important skill for both future "job talks" and grants' "importance paragraphs." Students' presentations will also include some research depth as part of developing stronger conference talks and to aid classmates in expanding their knowledge.#
&SYSEN 6270 | Sociotechnical System Modeling and Simulation&
#This transdisciplinary course provides an in-depth learning experience on the fundamentals of the modeling and simulation of social and sociotechnical systems. This course welcomes students from all academic disciplines (especially outside of engineering) if they have had experience with system architecture and/or systems thinking in any domain application. System perspectives are increasingly being used to engage with the complexity of environmental, social, economic and cultural dimensions of technology, and simulation is a powerful tool in the development of policies that affect these dimensions. Students do not need to have strong computational experience before taking this course, but they need to have a strong systems background. Using system dynamics modeling, this course teaches how to develop simulations of the sociotechnical dimensions of technology design, development and implementation with a strong focus on inclusive, participatory, stakeholder-centric modeling (e.g., Living Labs). In a hybrid asynchronous lab-based environment, students in this course will gain practical skills in using a modeling process to develop models and simulations of sociotechnical systems.#
&SYSEN 6400 | Theory and Practice of Systems Architecture&
#Every system has an architecture (its essence, or DNA), i.e., a high-level abstraction of its design that provides a unifying concept for detailed design and commits most of the system's performance and lifecycle cost. This course presents the frameworks, methods, and tools required to analyze and synthesize system architectures. The course has a theory part that emphasizes synergies between humans and computers in the architecture process, and a practical part based on a long project and guest lectures by real system architects. The theory part covers topics such as architecture views, layers and projections, stakeholder networks, dealing with fuzziness, automatic concept generation, architecture space exploration, patterns and styles, heuristics, and knowledge engineering. The practice part focuses on special topics such as commonality, platforming, reuse, upstream and downstream influences, and software architecture.#
&SYSEN 6410 | Multiobjective Systems Engineering Under Uncertainty&
#Exploration of engineering design frameworks that effectively exploit simulation, optimization, and uncertainty assessments when balancing large numbers of conflicting performance objectives. Students will learn and advance software frameworks that combine evolutionary multiobjective optimization, high performance computing, uncertainty modeling techniques, and visual design analytics. The primary focus will be improving multi-stakeholder design of complex engineered systems. Course concepts will be demonstrated using case studies and projects drawn from the disciplines of the students enrolled.#
&SYSEN 6610 | Applied Model Based Systems Engineering II&
#This course introduces fundamental ideas of Systems Engineering and their application to the design and development of various types of engineered systems.&nbsp; The systems engineering technical design process is emphasized, following the entire Vee-diagram process from initial problem definition and defining of system requirements, thru systems design & architecture, to implementation planning, and & testing and evaluation. The course also provides an applied introduction to a variety of areas that are commonly a part of Systems Engineering including creating effective project teams, customer needs evaluation, mathematical tools for system analysis, control & optimization, risk analysis and mitigation, decision making strategies, project organization & management, and the system life cycle. The course requires students to combine their work in this course with an outside-of-course MEng project#
&SYSEN 6680 | Optimal Control and Decision Theory&
#Covers the basic models and solution approaches for individual and team decision-making problems under uncertainty and provide a unified mathematical treatment of the subject, suitable for a broad engineering audience. The material will consider optimal decision-making of systems over a finite- and an infinite-time horizon. Topics include: (1) Stochastic optimization: finite- and infinite-horizon problems with complete or partial state information, separation principle, dual control; (2) Team Theory: mathematical framework of cooperating members in which all members have the same objective yet different information; (3) Reinforcement learning:  approximate dynamic programming, forward references to the approximate dynamic programming formalism, learning policies.#
&SYSEN 6888 | Deep Learning&
#This course provides a comprehensive overview of deep learning, covering basic concepts, models, algorithms, and applications. Topics include artificial neural networks, training techniques, convolutional neural networks, recurrent neural networks, generative deep learning, deep reinforcement learning, and deep learning hardware and software. Recent advances in deep learning, such as graph neural networks, attention, Transformer, ViT, BERT, and GPT, will also be discussed. The course explores deep learning-based applications in optimization, sensing, control, and automation, and in AI for Science, including molecular design, material discovery, and pharmaceutical development.#
&SYSEN 8100 | Systems Seminar Series - PhD&
#This is a weekly seminar course designed to give graduate students experience in improving their skills in presenting their research, judging peers' and field experts' research, as well as learning to accurately dissect and summarize the main points of a research talk. Being part of the Systems Engineering program, this course will strongly focus on developing the ability to present research in a broader context or as it relates to a larger system or process, and communicate the importance of the students' work to a more varied audience; a particularly important skill for both future "job talks" and grants' "importance paragraphs." Students' presentations will also include some research depth as part of developing stronger conference talks and to aid classmates in expanding their knowledge.#


$TAG | Tagalog$
&TAG 1100 | Elements of Tagalog-Filipino Language and Culture&
#This course will introduce very basic functional uses of Tagalog/Filipino language and elements of Filipino culture to interested students like heritage learners and those who are planning to travel briefly to the Philippines to participate in a short project or study abroad program in the country.#
&TAG 1122 | Elementary Tagalog-Filipino II&
#Gives a thorough grounding in basic speaking and listening skills with an introduction to reading and writing.#
&TAG 2202 | Intermediate Tagalog-Filipino II&
#Develops all four skills: listening, speaking, reading, and writing.#
&TAG 3302 | Advanced Tagalog-Filipino II&
#Continuing instruction on conversational skills but with emphasis on reading and writing. Selected core readings in contemporary Tagalog literature are used, but students, in consultation with the instructor, may select some of the class materials.#


$TAMIL | Tamil$
&TAMIL 1122 | Elementary Tamil II&
#Introduces students to the basic grammatical and syntactical skills required to function adequately in a Tamil-speaking environment. Of particular interest to students planning to conduct scholarly research or fieldwork in that region of the world. Introduces students to the rich culture of the Indian subcontinent where Tamil is spoken.#


$TECH | Digital Technology & Practice$
&TECH 5020 | PiTech Studio Seminar&
#The Pitech elective is primarily a survey course, designed to expose students to an array of cross-sector and multi-disciplinary efforts at the intersection of technology and positive social change, including socially responsible businesses, impact investing, philanthropy, and technology-driven innovations in the non profit and public sectors. The course will also offer practical guidance and tools for building social enterprise, impact-driven business, using technology to deliver essential services, and for those who are especially concerned with principles of responsible innovation. The course will feature fireside chat guests from leading practitioners in the space. Previous guests have included executives, founders, funders, investors, and leaders from the Ford Foundation, Blue Meridian, Girls Who Code, Data & Society, Omidyar Network, The White House, The Global Impact Investing Network, and more.#
&TECH 5110 | Early Adopters&
#Explore and learn a set of methodologies that support identifying and onboarding early adopters as customers for a new product built at a startup company, corporation, or project that expects to reach large scale. Students will complete the class with a set of tools and examples of real contracts, frameworks, and system and process designs that can be used to help support them in acquiring their first customer. In addition to the tools to support customer acquisition, students will make an attempt at acquiring their first customer for a real or hypothetical startup that is being built in the Studio at Cornell Tech.#
&TECH 5130 | Thinking Like a Venture Capitalist&
#In this course, students will be tasked with thinking like venture capitalists. We'll simulate a typical "Monday Partner Meeting" where we will debate and "make" potential investments. We will think about ways to help existing portfolio companies in various situations, and ultimately create a new venture fund from the ground up. The course will involve lots of discussion and exposure to real-life situations facing VCs today.#
&TECH 5200 | Product Management&
#This hands-on course helps students learn about and develop product management (PM) skills by putting those skills immediately to use in the context of in class-scenarios and other projects at Cornell Tech they might be working on (Startup Studio, Specialization, etc.). In each class, students learn about a different aspect of product management, product design, or technology development, and practice applying it in a group setting. By the end of the semester, students will have developed and practiced many of the fundamental product management skills required to develop new technology products.#
&TECH 5240 | Branding for Products&
#This course is designed to help students understand the strategic and practical aspects of designing a brand and an interface. We will cover the principles of brand strategy and brand design, user experience and interface design (UX/UI), and how to build a brand for the customer of the 21st century.#
&TECH 5250 | Applied Technopoetics&
#This studio course provokes new opportunities to intersect bleeding-edge digital technology with artistic practice, from making specific artworks to the tools and platforms that advance art & technology. You will read and discuss critical thought on art, technology and society; experience and critique art; relate art to entrepreneurship and exploration; go deep into the poetics that motivate technological art.#
&TECH 5260 | User Experience Research&
#Learn the basics of User Experience Research and its role in the successful product development cycle. This hands-on course will cover a variety of User Research techniques and how to effectively employ them at each stage of the product development cycle: ideation, prototyping and testing, launch, and beyond. In addition, the topics will include participant recruiting, ethical research, survey methodology, and usability evaluations.#
&TECH 5280 | Productizing Machine Learning&
#This course will equip attendees with a basic playbook for turning artificial intelligence and machine learning technologies into great products and businesses. This course is for anyone who wants to work on such products, whether they intend to become a product manager, startup founder, product attorney, or anything else. Everybody is welcome in this course and diverse perspectives are valued and appreciated. Any Cornell Tech student can succeed in this class; no prior ML experience or expertise is required and there is no coding involved.#
&TECH 5290 | Crisis Management in Tech&
#A crisis can strike at any time, and it can have major impacts on a business, its reputation, and its customers. This course prepares future tech industry leaders to navigate crises. Each session dives into real-world case studies encompassing data breaches, product failures, regulatory incidents, service disruptions, cybersecurity attacks, and more. Through in-depth analysis and practical applications, students explore the multifaceted landscape of tech crises, crafting actionable crisis management plans. This course arms participants with a comprehensive playbook, honing their abilities to mitigate risks, lead during crises, and learn from incidents,
ensuring preparedness and resilience in the ever-evolving tech sphere.#
&TECH 5910 | Startup Studio&
#Students cofound their own startups, developing their ideas, products, and pitches, learning to create and tell a compelling startup story, and test their product with users. Students participate in three 24-hour "Maker Days" where they focus on developing their product and final presentation at the end of the semester.#
&TECH 5920 | BigCo Studio&
#Most people who work in the tech industry will start and perhaps spend their careers in established companies. The companies—we call "BigCos"—have complex org structures, unique market dynamics, and different ways of getting things done. In this class, students will learn how to successfully navigate the opportunities and challenges of a BigCo and build products in a complex environment at scale from practitioners with extensive experience and prominent guest speakers. Students will also learn about how business development, M&A, and other corporate activities complement and sometimes compete with larger strategic initiatives. Students will work in teams matched with a real-world opportunity and advisor from a BigCo. Teams will build and pitch a product in three sprints culminating in a final presentation and demo.#
&TECH 5930 | PiTech Impact Studio&
#Public Interest Tech is defined by the deployment of technological expertise in service of the common good, often with a focus on under-resourced communities and needs. This course will address how leaders might use digital technology to:
● Assist communities in adapting and deploying digital tools to meet local public health priorities, such as food insecurity, social isolation, and healthcare access.
● Support public school systems in addressing pedagogical, equity, and privacy gaps of the software platforms they depend upon.
● Enable community participation in data collection and decision making
● Collaborate with stakeholders to apply digital tools and models in support of a more equitable and effective criminal justice system.
● Advise local policy makers on the externalities of emerging safety and surveillance technologies.#


$TECHIE | Digital Technology Interdisciplinary Education$
&TECHIE 5300 | Fundamentals of Modern Software&
#This is a crash course in how software works and what it can do. It covers the basics of programming, databases, and web applications. There is a strong emphasis on learning by doing and the course includes weekly programming assignments in Python.#
&TECHIE 5320 | Law for Non-Lawyers&
#This class introduces the principal legal issues involved in starting, managing and operating a technology-oriented business by entrepreneurs. It is intended to provide non-law students with an understanding of many of the laws and regulations to which developing businesses in the United States tech sector are typically subject—from the time an entrepreneur conceives and begins to build a business, implements a business plan, and obtains financing, to when she begins operations in anticipation of managing a mature company and considering possible exit strategies.#
&TECHIE 5331 | Cornell Tech Trip&
#No description available.#


$THAI | Thai$
&THAI 1100 | Elements of Thai Language and Culture&
#This course introduces basic spoken Thai and various aspects of Thai culture for short-term visitors.  Through active, participatory learning this course cultivates a working knowledge of the Thai language and develops a cultural "intuition" that is meaningful and functional for achieving a smooth transition and successful experience in Thailand.  This course is for students who are personally interested in Thai culture as well as those participating in university projects in Thailand.#
&THAI 1122 | Elementary Thai II&
#This beginning level course provides a solid grounding in all four language skills (listening, speaking, reading, and writing) with an emphasis on reading and writing. The aim is to enable learners to continue the process of thinking in Thai and learning to converse and "get around" in certain basic situations in daily life with an additional of basic literacy skill.#
&THAI 2202 | Intermediate Thai II&
#Continues to develop and comprehensively extends the four language skills acquired at the Elementary level (listening, speaking, reading, and writing).#
&THAI 2204 | Intermediate Thai Composition and Conversation II&
#Develops conversational skill along with reading and writing skills at a High Intermediate level.#
&THAI 3302 | Advanced Thai II&
#Develops advanced speaking skill with emphasis on selected readings in Thai from various fields, for example, History, Anthropology, Government, Economics, Agriculture, as well as other professional schools.  The readings are supplemented with visual materials such as video clips and films.#
&THAI 3304 | Thai Literature II&
#Reading of significant novels, short stories, and poetry written since 1850 and other classical works.#


$TIBET | Tibetan$
&TIBET 1112 | Elementary Modern Tibetan II&
#This is an introductory course. It focuses on developing basic abilities to speak as well as to read and write in modern Tibetan, Lhasa dialect. Students are also introduced to modern Tibetan studies through selected readings and guest lectures.#
&TIBET 1122 | Elementary Classical Tibetan II&
#Introduces students to the grammar of Classical Literary Tibetan as found in Indian treatises translated from Sanskrit into Tibetan, as well as indigenous Tibetan philosophical works. The course progresses through a sequence of the basic rudiments of the language, including an introduction to the script and its romanization, pronunciation (central Lhasan dialect), normative dictionary order, and the basic categories of grammar. Following these preliminaries, students proceed to guided readings in Tibetan literature designed to introduce them to the formal approach of Tibetan lexical semantics with an emphasis on the role of verbs in determining argument realization options. Over the duration of the course, students encounter new vocabulary (and associated Buddhist concept hierarchies) and increasingly complex sentence structures. This course thus provides a solid foundation for the later exploration of other genres of literature and styles of composition.#
&TIBET 2202 | Intermediate Classical Tibetan II&
#This two-semester class is designed to assist students who already have the equivalent of at least one year of Tibetan language study. The course is intended to build on this foundation so that students gain greater proficiency in reading a variety of classical Tibetan writing styles and genres, including (especially in the second semester) texts relevant to their research.#
&TIBET 2212 | Intermediate Modern Tibetan II&
#For those whose knowledge is equivalent to a student who has completed the first-year course. The course focuses on the further development of their skills in using the language to engage with practical topics and situations, such as seeing a doctor, reading news, writing letters, and listening to music.#
&TIBET 3302 | Advanced Classical Tibetan II&
#This class is designed to assist students who already have the equivalent of at least two years of Classical Tibetan language study. The course is intended to build on this foundation so that students gain greater proficiency in reading a variety of classical Tibetan writing styles and genres, including texts relevant to their research.#
&TIBET 3312 | Advanced Modern Tibetan II&
#For those whose knowledge is equivalent to a student who has completed the second-year course. The course develops students' reading comprehension skills through reading selected modern Tibetan literature. Tibetan is used as the medium of instruction and interaction to develop oral fluency and proficiency.#


$TOX | Toxicology$
&TOX 7130 | Cell Cycle Analysis&
#Presents a brief historical review of the cell cycle; a summary of cell cycle regulatory processes; and practical methods for cell cycle analysis, including mathematical representations. Topics include: growth control of bacterial cell cycle including chemostats, mammalian cell tissue culture, cell synchronization, flow cytometry, age-density representation, G1 regulation, labile regulatory protein models, cell transformation, regulation by growth factors and the cytoskeleton, cyclin/E2F/RB regulatory model, practical examples for analysis of cell cycle phase durations, cell cycle phase specific growth factor sensitivity, timing of RB protein phosphorylation within the cell cycle. The objective of the course is to present graduate students with methods for cell cycle analyses that will be used in their research.#
&TOX 8900 | Master's Thesis and Research&
#Thesis research for master's students.#
&TOX 9900 | Doctoral Thesis and Research&
#Thesis research for Ph.D. candidates.#


$TURK | Turkish$
&TURK 1331 | Elementary Turkish through TV Series II&
#In this introductory course of a sequence of two, learners will develop a basic foundation in reading, writing, listening, and beginning conversation skills in contemporary Turkish. Learners will read short texts on Turkish culture, handle non-complex social conversations, understand sentence-level statements, and write simple paragraphs on familiar topics. This course has a section focused on Turkish TV series. In this section, the learners will have a deeper understanding of Turkish language, society, and culture. They will watch the most popular TV series, complete the assigned tasks, and discuss in class. This course is for new learners of Turkish.#
&TURK 2332 | Intermediate Turkish II&
#In this course, learners will advance their reading, writing, listening and conversation skills in contemporary Turkish as they move towards extended conversation, written communication, academic listening/watching, and research. This course has sections focused on Turkish Literature, TV series, and cinema. In this section, the learners will have a deeper understanding of Turkish language, society, and culture. The course also has sections designed for heritage speaker needs.#
&TURK 5510 | Graduate Studies in Turkish&
#Topics vary by semester in relation to student needs.#


$UKRAN | Ukrainian$
&UKRAN 1100 | Introduction to the Geography, History, Culture, and Language of Ukraine&
#The course offers a general overview of the geography, history, literature, cinema, fine arts, music, and language of this Eastern European country of some 40 million people. At various historical periods since the 18th century, Ukraine had been controlled by the Russian Empire and Soviet Union, gained independence in 1991, and become the target of a military invasion by Russian Federation in 2022. Through assigned readings, videos, and other materials, students will gain a degree of understanding of the historical and social forces that shape Ukrainian everyday life, natural environments, and popular culture, and its current place in Europe and the world.#
&UKRAN 1121 | Elementary Ukrainian I&
#This course teaches language as a gateway to Ukrainian literature, history, and arts and the means of communication in everyday life, offering thorough grounding in listening, speaking, reading, and writing.#
&UKRAN 1122 | Elementary Ukrainian II&
#This course teaches language as a gateway to Ukrainian literature, history, and arts and the means of communication in everyday life, offering thorough grounding in listening, speaking, reading, and writing.#
&UKRAN 2134 | Intermediate Ukrainian II&
#The course starts with a review and subsequent reinforcement of grammar fundamentals and core vocabulary pertaining to the most common aspects of daily life. Principal emphasis is placed on further development of students' communicative skills (oral and written) on such topics as the self, family, studies and leisure, travel, meals and others.#
&UKRAN 2200 | Ukraine's Culture and Language within the Legacy of the USSR, Russian Invasion, and Other Crises&
#This course offers a close look at the language and culture in independent Ukraine: Western vs. Slavic linguistic heritage, Internet styles, Russian vis-a-vis Ukrainian influence, and more. Mileposts of the 20th and the 21st centuries are discussed in depth. This is not a course in history or government; the recent complex (often cataclysmic) events in Ukraine are investigated in the context of the everyday life of our contemporaries. How have Ukrainians pursued self-determination through culture and language after decades of oppression and control? The course is taught by a recent refugee from the Ukrainian war who is especially interested in Ukraine's new role on the world stage. Why the yellow-and-blue flags and bumper stickers in our streets and parking lots?#
&UKRAN 3134 | Advanced Ukrainian II&
#This content-based modular course aims to develop students' capacity to use the Ukrainian language as a research and communication tool in a variety of specialized functional and stylistic areas that include literary fiction, scholarly prose, printed and broadcast journalism. It is designed for students with interest in the history, politics, literature, culture and other aspects of contemporary Ukraine, as well as those who plan to do their research, business or reporting about Ukraine.#
&UKRAN 3300 | Directed Studies&
#Taught on a specialized basis for students with special projects (e.g., to supplement a non-language course or thesis work).#
&UKRAN 3305 | Reading and Writing for Heritage Speakers of Ukrainian&
#Intended for students who speak more or less standard Ukrainian but have only beginner's understanding of Ukrainian grammar and have not learned to read or write in Ukrainian well (or have not learned written Ukrainian at all). May be taught slightly faster or slower in a given year, depending on the needs and interests of the students. Two classes a week teach writing and grammar and related reading. These classes are required, and the students who take them receive 2 credit hours. The third (optional) class teaches reading and discussion, focusing on contemporary styles.#


$UNILWYL | Learning Where you Live$
&UNILWYL 1130 | The Art and Science of Birds&
#Art and science have always been fundamentally linked. Before the invention of photography, illustration was the main documentation tool in science; even now, artistic representations are used to communicate important scientific discoveries. In this course students learn the basics of bird anatomy in tandem with sketching techniques to foster an appreciation of how science and art can reinforce each other in enriching one's life and study. Led by the staff biological illustrator at the Cornell Lab of Ornithology, students begin with the fundamentals of observational drawing to improve accuracy before moving onto watercolors. Interwoven into art lessons are scientific lectures produced by Cornell ornithologists, blending art with current science to cover a range of interconnected topics.#
&UNILWYL 1135 | All About Money&
#An introduction to why, where, when, and how to save (invest) money and issues involving managing debt and assets.  This includes defining the concept of the time value of money (interest), identifying, and comparing the various options for investing and their associated risks, the pros and cons of credit and debit card use, tax deferred retirement plans, evaluating and comparing house renting or house buying alternatives, types of life or long-term care insurance and when, if at all, to buy it, and the effects of income taxes and inflation.#
&UNILWYL 1153 | Pioneering Sustainable Change in the Real World&
#This course aims to equip students with the knowledge and tools to understand and address climate change from various angles, including the physical sciences, engineering, public policy, and social sciences. Topics include climate leadership at Cornell, renewable energy integration, transportation electrification, food and agriculture, waste management, and sustainable behavior change. This course invites leading experts at Cornell to share cutting edge practices with students in a small group setting.#
&UNILWYL 1160 | Sauteéd Science and Edible Engineering&
#This class will experimentally investigate the science that underlies food preparation techniques and the tastes they produce. We will read about and discuss the relevant science for different culinary techniques, and then take things into the kitchen for "food labs," where we will explore how the science and culinary approaches we learned about impact how things taste (while we prepare a meal we will share together). Topics include the neuroscience of seasoning and spices, the chemistry of browning and carmalization, and the polymer physics of emulsions and meringues. Working in teams of two, students will also research and present to the class on the science of a food preparation technique of their choice, and then design and conduct food lab experiments for us all to taste and learn from. There will be three hour-long meetings and four three-hour food labs over the course of the term.#
&UNILWYL 1166 | Queer Identities in Practice&
#This course will introduce students to the LGBTQAI+ umbrella experience through interactions with community partners and scholars specializing in issues of power, desire, sex, gender, race, and sexuality. These conversations will be supplemented with limited readings that will give a solid framework on LGBTQAI+ advocacy to students and allow them to understand the parameters in which these partners evolve, as well as the history of the LGBTQAI+ communities.#
&UNILWYL 1170 | Reading Cornell's Toni Morrison&
#Each spring, this seven-week LWYL course will focus on a different novel by Nobel Laureate and Cornell alumna Toni Morrison (MA '55). Students will read and discuss each novel in the context of Morrison's life and career, her place in African American, U.S. and world literature, and her exploration of crucial questions regarding identity, race, gender, history, oppression, and autonomy. Please visit Class Roster for the current semester's featured novel.#
&UNILWYL 1402 | Rose Scholars Program&
#Rose Scholars program is an interdisciplinary course available only to residents of Flora Rose House. The program requires weekly participation in one of about five guided trips, workshops, discussions, lectures, and performances in social sciences, natural sciences, arts, humanities, and other fields. Participants reflect on their experiences with weekly digital media postings. The program is designed to introduce participants to the breadth of intellectual resources and activities on the Cornell campus and in the nearby community.#
&UNILWYL 1404 | Cook Conversations and Community Engagement: Bridging Self and World&
#This interdisciplinary course serves as a gateway for engagement in the Alice Cook House living and learning community, which is part of the West Campus House System. This guest speaker series is an informal way to interact with Cornell faculty and administrative leaders, and dialogue with visitors to who leads a conversation on a topic or passion that is dear to them. From discussions with faculty about their research and career paths to understanding the inner workings of Cornell Dining, there is something for everyone in this course. Each week features a different guest speaker and these intimate and informal conversations are designed to cover a breadth of topics that allow students to explore fields in which they have no specific background knowledge. As such, the topics are as varied and stimulating as the extraordinary lives and minds of those who come to chat with students about the things they care most about. Spaces (both physical and digital) will be provided for students to engage in informal discussions with Cornell faculty members, other invited speakers, and each other. The goal is to provide a platform for critical thinking and reflection within and beyond the boundaries of one's own discipline(s). Join House Professor-Dean Chantal Thomas in informal conversations on a range of interesting issues that shape our lives.#
&UNILWYL 1405 | Bridging Disciplines: Active Citizens at Cook House&
#Bridging Disciplines is a course requirement for the Active Citizens program at Alice Cook House. One pillar of active citizenship is learning about different academic disciplines and gaining a sense of the questions being asked and the research being done currently on the Cornell campus. This weekly informal discussion series brings together speakers from across departments to talk with undergraduate students about their research at Cornell. Cook House residents who are not in the Active Citizens program may attend the class on a drop-in basis.#
&UNILWYL 1407 | Conversations at Keeton: Exploring Modern Influences in Our Lives&
#This course is designed to foster participation in the William Keeton House living and learning community, which is part of the West Campus House System. The weekly conversation series is an informal opportunity to engage with Cornell faculty, guest speakers, and community leaders on various timely topics. The course will focus on exploring the impact of modern influences in our lives, including sustainability, artificial intelligence, and a third area that will be determined collaboratively within the class. These conversations will not require any specific background knowledge and will take place in the Keeton House Professor's apartment.#
&UNILWYL 1408 | Carl Becker Café&
#The café series is a weekly informal discussion held every Wednesday evening. The café features guest speakers who share their experience and expertise and often speak to challenging issues of our time. Our guests are eloquent, committed people leading very interesting lives. Hosted in the Becker House Professor's apartment, at café you'll enjoy great conversation in a relaxed environment with coffee and treats provided! You may join the café on a drop-in basis or take it as a 1-credit S/U course.#
&UNILWYL 1416 | Socially Just Leadership Development&
#"Socially Just Leadership Development" will provide students an opportunity to use an enhanced social justice lens to nurture their leadership development and push past performative allyship. This interactive 12-week class will challenge students to reflect critically on their identities, learn the path from diversity to inclusion and justice, develop tangible skills and tools to interrupt injustice, and further their learning and understanding of social justice. Students will engage in small and large group discussions, guided activities, and will submit a reflection paper at the end of the semester to outline tangible action steps they can take in their time at Cornell and beyond.#


$URDU | Urdu$
&URDU 1125 | Introduction to Urdu Script&
#This class is an introductory class for beginners. This course will teach students how to listen, speak, read and write Urdu through vocabulary, grammar, oral and written activities, with an emphasis on reading and writing basic Urdu. The course begins by introducing the alphabet and their combinations. In addition to learning the script we will also introduce the basic knowledge and background on Urdu culture.#
&URDU 2226 | Intermediate Urdu Reading and Writing II&
#This course is designed to develop competence in Urdu reading and writing for students with a first-year knowledge of Hindi and knowledge of Urdu script. The goal of this course is to improve listening, speaking, reading and writing abilities in Urdu. By the end of the course, students will have the ability to read articles, write short stories and translate Urdu writings. This course may be taken concurrently with Intermediate Hindi.#


$VETCS | Veterinary Medicine Clinical Sciences$
&VETCS 7100 | Advanced Veterinary Anesthesiology I&
#This course is designed to prepare house officers in the Section of Anesthesiology and Pain Medicine for the American College of Veterinary Anesthesia and Analgesia (ACVAA) certifying examination. It also provides continuing education for faculty and staff. The course is suitable for interns and residents training in other specialties, such as surgery, internal medicine, emergency medicine, critical care, and laboratory animal medicine, as well as graduate students with interests in applied physiology and pharmacology. It consists of a three-year cycle of topics (two semesters of anatomy and physiology - focusing on the respiratory, cardiovascular, and neurological systems - and one semester each of pharmacology, equipment, monitoring, and clinical anesthesiology). Each week, a lecture (usually presented by a resident or faculty member in the Section of Anesthesiology and Pain Medicine, or sometimes by faculty from other sections and departments), resident-led book chapter review, or laboratory is held. An online, multiple-choice, mock ACVAA examination concludes each semester.#


$VETMI | Veterinary Medicine Microbiology$
&VETMI 5000 | Independent Study in Immunology&
#This course will allow students to gain an in-depth knowledge of basic immunology through independent study under the guidance of faculty on individual topics.#
&VETMI 6200 | Research Fellowship in Microbiology and Immunology&
#Offered by individual faculty members in the Department of Microbiology and Immunology for DVM students undertaking research in Research Fellowship.#
&VETMI 7030 | Biomedical Sciences: Foundations of the PhD&
#This course is designed to support the comprehensive success of PhD students in the Biological and Biomedical Sciences. Preference given to those in the Initiative for Maximizing Student Development (IMSD) program. Enrollment in this course is by instructor permission only.#
&VETMI 7070 | Advanced Work in Bacteriology, Virology, and Immunology&
#Designed primarily for graduate students with a background in pathogenic microbiology and immunology. May be elected by veterinary students who are properly prepared.#
&VETMI 7120 | Seminars in Infection and Immunity&
#The Seminars in Infection and Immunity Series hosts local, national, and international speakers in the immunology, microbiology, virology, and parasitology sectors to acquaint students with current advances and insight in the field. This course provides students with lunch discussions with each speaker to offer networking opportunities with established scientists. Seminars are open to the public. The seminar schedule and list of speakers for each semester can be found by going to the CVM Department of Microbiology and Immunology website.#
&VETMI 7410 | Internal Parasites of Sheep&
#In-depth look at ovine and caprine endoparasites of major importance in North America and Europe. Details of taxonomy, biology, epidemiology, pathology, host immunity, clinical presentation, and preventative and curative treatment. Consideration of efficacy of available parasiticides. Information from studies reported in primary literature will be reviewed where applicable.#
&VETMI 7417 | Organisms as Lab Models&
#Laboratory animals have their own parasites and are used as hosts of parasites of other animals that are adapted for biological study.  They are critical as models for human and animal disease and are often used for drug discovery or initial testing.#
&VETMI 7423 | Cases with Specimens Laboratory- Large Animal&
#Cases from all major large animal hosts will have the students work through a series each laboratory from presentation, samples, diagnostic testing, and suggestion of treatment, therapy, and follow up.  The course will utilize fixed and prepared samples, and living materials when available.#
&VETMI 7424 | Cases with Specimens Laboratory- Small Animal&
#Cases from all major small animal hosts will have the students work through a series each laboratory from presentation, samples, diagnostic testing, and suggestion of treatment, therapy, and follow up.  The course will utilize fixed and prepared samples, and living materials when available.#
&VETMI 7425 | Imaging of Parasites in Vivo&
#This course will examine imaging methodology and its usefulness in the diagnosis of and possibly inclusion in the assessment of various modalities for parasite identification and counting.  New methods and procedures are making it possible to examine living parasites in living hosts in ways that were once impossible.#
&VETMI 7428 | Early Drug Discovery&
#The course will describe the system by which molecules move up the system to actually become a product and the myriad pitfalls that can end a products development early in the process and very late in the process of development.#
&VETMI 7429 | Antiparasitic Drugs&
#In-depth look at drugs for prevention and control of parasitic infections/infestations of domestic animals with emphasis on products commercially available in North America and Europe, including: discovery & development, modes of action for classes of compounds, differences between drugs within the same class, targeted parasitic life stages, and on/off-label use.#
&VETMI 7433 | Statistics for Efficacy Studies&
#Introduction to statistics as it relates to both experimental and observations studies will allow students to be able to interpret statistics and understand the need for statistical testing in study design.  Students will obtain practice with data collection, entry, and analysis.#
&VETMI 7434 | Regulatory Approval&
#Introduction to the concepts, considerations and processes involved in acquisition of FDA, EPA, and USDA approvals and registrations for parasiticides:  responsibilities of study directors and monitors, guidelines, discovery, research and product development, etc. Sample protocols and FDA, EPA, and USDA registrations will be examined.#
&VETMI 7436 | Capstone Project I&
#In this course students will develop a topic for their literature-review dealing directly with a subject in veterinary parasitology and will be assigned a faculty mentor.  Students will identify their academic sources and will be expected to submit an annotated bibliography for review. This course will assess a student's ability to read, evaluate and integrate the research literature into the design of a veterinary parasitology investigation.#
&VETMI 7441 | Wildlife Parasitology&
#Parasites of wildlife, mainly of more studied hosts. Emphasis on morphology, biology, diversity, and effects on host and environment. Examples of parasites of invertebrates, fish, amphibia, reptiles, birds, and mammals. Objective is an appreciation of the diversity of parasites and to introduce the impact that these parasites have on biology.#
&VETMI 7446 | Capstone Project II&
#Critical evaluation and integration of the research literature is a critical tool of the modern parasitologist. This course will provide students with the ability to read, understand, evaluate and integrate the research literature in veterinary parasitology. Students will enhance their writing and presentation skills in the preparation of the project. Students will prepare a literature-review based project dealing directly with a subject in veterinary parasitology.  This project is an in depth and extensive review of the literature, culminating in the preparation of an hour-long lecture to be presented at the end of the course, and submit a final copy of the required paper. This course is intended for students enrolled in their final semester of the Masters of Professional Studies in Veterinary Medical Sciences. Students will present to MPS faculty in person during the final exam period.#


$VIEN | Viticulture and Enology$
&VIEN 1104 | Introduction to Wines and Vines&
#Broad introduction to grape cultivation and wine fermentations. Topics include history of winemaking, viticultural regions, vineyard and winery practices, wine flavor chemistry and microbiology, and wine flavor perception. Tasting wines in class illustrates the components that determine wine quality.#
&VIEN 1105 | Introduction to Wines and Vines Laboratory&
#Students learn in the classroom and teaching winery. Activities include practice of techniques relevant to making and analyzing wines, writing focused on wine topics, and sensory evaluation of wine. Writing assignments include a scientific paper and wine-related pieces geared towards different audiences. Significant work is expected between class sessions. Preference given to V&E majors.#
&VIEN 2340 | Cider Production: Apples and Fermented Juice&
#Hard cider consumption has expanded rapidly over the last decade. Want to learn why? This course focuses on the scientific basis of cider production from orchard to bottle and provides a brief overview of the history and culture of cider. We will also review the current market trends and the economics of growing hard cider apples and producing cider. The suitability of producing cider will be contrasted with wine production in NYS. Each class will include tastings so that students receive a robust overview of typical cider flavors, an introduction to different cider styles, and gain an ability to identify both good and off-flavors in ciders. Course drops are only allowed until the start of the third lecture. We do not maintain a waitlist or manually manage enrollment for this class, students should self-monitor to see when a seat opens up.#
&VIEN 2360 | Distillation Principles and Practices&
#As an introduction to the science of distillation this course uses the study of pre-fermentation and fermentation biology, phase separation and vapor-liquid equilibrium, and sensory perception as a vehicle to explore the role of science and technology in the production and enjoyment of distilled beverages. Sensory samples and commercial samples of spirits will be used to illustrate the sensory properties and chemical components which define different types of distilled spirits, with the goal of understanding how different raw materials, processing, and aging impact these sensory properties.#
&VIEN 2400 | Wines and Grapes: Composition and Analysis&
#Investigates the composition of grapes and wine and the most common analytical tools used in their evaluation. Both the theoretical and practical aspects of grape and wine analyses are considered.#
&VIEN 3620 | Vineyard Management II&
#This course is designed to develop the relevant skills required for Winter and Spring vineyard management, as well as budget and business plan formation. Focused on hands-on, active learning, students will spend significant time in the Cornell University vineyards.#
&VIEN 4340 | Cider Production Laboratory&
#Cider is a fermented beverage made from apples. Students in this course are immersed in cider production and analysis practices through activities in the teaching winery and by visiting commercial cideries. Readings and discussions support the hands-on learning focus in this laboratory course. Significant winery time between weekly class sessions is required.#
&VIEN 4360 | Distillation Principles and Practices Laboratory&
#As an introduction to the science of distillation this course uses the study of pre-fermentation and fermentation biology, phase separation and vapor-liquid equilibrium, and sensory perception as a vehicle to explore the role of science and technology in the production and enjoyment of distilled beverages. Sensory samples and commercial samples of spirits will be used to illustrate the sensory properties and chemical components which define different types of distilled spirits, with the goal of understanding how different raw materials, processing, and aging impact these sensory properties.#
&VIEN 4700 | Advanced Winemaking Theory and Practice II&
#Winemaking Theory and Practice II specifically addresses the non-fermentation aspects of wine production. This area includes fining, stabilization, adjustments, clarification, filtration, bottling, general sanitation, government regulations, oxidation, aging, contributions of oak, and production equipment and materials. Course builds on previous winemaking course material regarding wine production options for different wine styles, including chemical and sensory analysis and chemical and microbial stability.#
&VIEN 4710 | Advanced Winemaking Theory and Practice II Laboratory&
#In the laboratory of part II of the Winemaking Theory and Practice, students continue working with wines produced in the preceding fall term, focusing on aging options, stabilization, fining, and packaging. The laboratory also provides advanced training in wine chemical and sensory analysis. Students must develop their own winemaking finishing plan for several different young wines, and participate in self-guided wine production activities, thus previous experience in wine production is highly recommended.#
&VIEN 4960 | Viticulture and Enology Internship&
#Internships provide experiential learning opportunities in real-life winery and vineyard circumstances where classroom knowledge is applied and evaluated. Students are able to master new skills, compare pilot-scale with commercial-scale winemaking practices, solve problems, interact in workplace situations, and build networks for future career opportunities. While working with industry mentors, students apply classroom knowledge, critical thinking, and self-directed learning skills to work effectively. Learning contract and documentation required for credit. May be taken twice.#
&VIEN 4970 | Individual Study in Viticulture and Enology&
#Undergraduate individual study in viticulture and enology under the direction of one or more faculty members. Since topics vary, the course may be repeated for credit.#
&VIEN 4980 | Undergraduate Teaching Experience&
#Students assist in teaching a course appropriate to their previous training and experience. TA duties are determined by student and instructor(s) of course. Since topics vary, the course may be repeated for credit.#
&VIEN 4990 | Undergraduate Research in Viticulture and Enology&
#Undergraduate individual study or research in viticulture and enology under the direction of one or more faculty members. Since topics vary, the course may be repeated for credit.#
&VIEN 5340 | Cider Production: Apples and Fermented Juice&
#Hard cider consumption has expanded rapidly over the last decade. Want to learn why? This course focuses on the scientific basis of cider production from orchard to bottle and provides a brief overview of the history and culture of cider. We will also review the current market trends and the economics of growing hard cider apples and producing cider. The suitability of producing cider will be contrasted with wine production in NYS. Each class will include tastings so that students receive a robust overview of typical cider flavors, an introduction to different cider styles, and gain an ability to identify both good and off-flavors in ciders. Course drops are only allowed until the start of the third lecture. We do not maintain a waitlist or manually manage enrollment for this class, students should self-monitor to see when a seat opens up.#
&VIEN 5360 | Distillation Principles and Practices&
#As an introduction to the science of distillation this course uses the study of pre-fermentation and fermentation biology, phase separation and vapor-liquid equilibrium, and sensory perception as a vehicle to explore the role of science and technology in the production and enjoyment of distilled beverages. Sensory samples and commercial samples of spirits will be used to illustrate the sensory properties and chemical components which define different types of distilled spirits, with the goal of understanding how different raw materials, processing, and aging impact these sensory properties.#
&VIEN 5400 | Wine and Grapes: Composition and Analysis&
#VIEN 5400 is a 2-credit course (1 credit lecture, 1 credit lab) with an emphasis on understanding the practice and theory behind analytical techniques routinely used in the wine and grape industries, and the statistical tools used to evaluate the effectiveness of both analyst and assay. The course is designed to provide practical skills complementary to other courses. VIEN 5400 is restricted to graduate students; undergraduates should enroll in VIEN 2400.#
&VIEN 5620 | Vineyard Management II&
#This course is designed to develop the relevant skills required for Winter and Spring vineyard management, as well as budget and business plan formation. Focused on hands-on, active learning, students will spend significant time in the Cornell University vineyards.#
&VIEN 5660 | Current Topics in the Biology of Wine Microbes&
#This course uses primary literature publications related to wine-relevant microbes to explore how cells interact with their environment and how scientific progress is made. Selected papers will include both investigations into basic cell biology of wine-relevant microbes and direct investigations into wine microbiology.#
&VIEN 6340 | Cider Production Laboratory&
#Cider is a fermented beverage made from apples. Students in this course are immersed in cider production and analysis practices through activities in the teaching winery and by visiting commercial cideries. Readings and discussions support the hands-on learning focus in this laboratory course. Significant winery time between weekly class sessions is required.#
&VIEN 6360 | Distillation Principles and Practices Laboratory&
#As an introduction to the science of distillation this course uses the study of pre-fermentation and fermentation biology, phase separation and vapor-liquid equilibrium, and sensory perception as a vehicle to explore the role of science and technology in the production and enjoyment of distilled beverages. Sensory samples and commercial samples of spirits will be used to illustrate the sensory properties and chemical components which define different types of distilled spirits, with the goal of understanding how different raw materials, processing, and aging impact these sensory properties.#
&VIEN 6700 | Advanced Winemaking Theory and Practice II&
#Winemaking Theory and Practice II specifically addresses the non-fermentation aspects of wine production. This area includes fining, stabilization, adjustments, clarification, filtration, bottling, general sanitation, government regulations, oxidation, aging, contributions of oak, and production equipment and materials. Course builds on previous winemaking course material regarding wine production options for different wine styles, including chemical and sensory analysis and chemical and microbial stability.#
&VIEN 6710 | Advanced Winemaking Theory and Practice II Laboratory&
#In the laboratory of part II of the Winemaking Theory and Practice, students continue working with wines produced in the preceding fall term, focusing on aging options, stabilization, fining, and packaging. The laboratory also provides advanced training in wine chemical and sensory analysis. Students must develop their own winemaking finishing plan for several different young wines, and participate in self-guided wine production activities, thus previous experience in wine production is highly recommended.#


$VIET | Vietnamese$
&VIET 1100 | Elements of Vietnamese Language and Culture&
#This course is designed for anyone wishing to gain some basic Vietnamese language skills and learn various elements of Vietnamese culture. Those who are planning to take short trips to Vietnam will find this course particularly useful.  Due to the flip classroom nature of the course, it is intended for sophomores and up.#
&VIET 1122 | Elementary Vietnamese II&
#This course gives a thorough grounding in basic speaking, listening, reading, and writing skills in Vietnamese.#
&VIET 2202 | Intermediate Vietnamese II&
#Continuing instruction in spoken  and written Vietnamese with special emphasis on expanding vocabulary and  reading ability.#
&VIET 3302 | Advanced Vietnamese II&
#Continuing instruction in spoken and written Vietnamese. The course emphasizes on enlarging vocabulary and increasing reading speed by reading various genres and styles of prose.#


$VISST | Visual Studies$
&VISST 2000 | Introduction to Visual Studies&
#This course provides an introduction to modes of vision and the historical impact of visual images, visual structures, and visual space on culture, communication, and politics. It examines all aspects of culture that communicate through visual means, including 20th-century visual technologies—photography, cinema, video, etc., and their historical corollaries. The production and consumption of images, objects, and events is studied in diverse cultures. Students develop the critical skills necessary to appreciate how the approaches that define visual studies complicate traditional models of defining and analyzing art objects.#
&VISST 2511 | Dance Composition&
#Students compose and present short studies that are discussed and reworked. Problems are defined and explored through class improvisations. Informal showing at end of semester. Includes informal showing of work. Weekly assignments in basic elements of choreography.#
&VISST 2750 | Introduction to Humanities&
#These seminars offer an introduction to the humanities by exploring historical, cultural, social, and political themes. Students will explore themes in critical dialogue with a range of texts and media drawn from the arts, humanities, and/or humanistic social sciences. Guest speakers, including Cornell faculty and Society for the Humanities Fellows, will present from different disciplines and points of view. Students will make field trips to relevant local sites and visit Cornell special collections and archives. Students enrolled in these seminars will have the opportunity to participate in additional programming related to the annual focus theme of Cornell's Society for the Humanities and the Humanities Scholars Program for undergraduate humanities research.#
&VISST 2790 | Jewish Films and Filmmakers: Hollywood and Beyond&
#What does it mean to call a film is "Jewish"? Does it have to represent Jewish life? Does it have to feature characters identifiable as Jews? If artists who identify as Jews—actors, directors, screenwriters, composers—play significant roles in a film's production does that make it Jewish? Our primary point of entry into these questions will be Hollywood, from the industry's early silent films, through the period generally considered classical, down to the present day. We will also study films produced overseas, in countries that may include Israel, Egypt, France, Italy, and Germany. Our discussions will be enriched by contextual material drawn from film studies, cultural studies, Jewish studies, American studies, and other related fields. Students will be expected to view a significant number of films outside of class—an average of one per week—and engage with them through writing and in-class discussion. The directors, screenwriters, composers, and actors whose work we will study may include: Charlie Chaplin, Irving Berlin, Al Jolson, Fanny Brice, Billy Wilder, Barbra Streisand, Woody Allen, Mel Brooks, Aviva Kempner, Joan Micklin Silver, the Marx Brothers, and the Coen Brothers.#
&VISST 2805 | Introduction to Asian Art: Material Worlds&
#Trade in and to Asia proved to be a key force in creating our modern "globalized" world. The Indian Ocean and the China Seas converged on Southeast Asia, where a cosmopolitan array of ships from every shore plied their trade, set sail, and returned with the monsoon winds. People, goods, and ideas also traveled on camelback across the undulating contours of the Gobi Desert, connecting India, the Near East and Central Asia with China, Korea, and Japan. This course introduces students to the raw ingredients of things in motion, poised interactively in time and space, as material worlds collide. Wood, bamboo, bronze, clay, earthenware, ink, spices, textiles and tea - students will navigate sites of encounter at the Herbert F. Johnson Museum from pre modern to the present.#
&VISST 3175 | Global Cinema and Media&
#Global Cinema and Media offers a survey of international film and media history from the late nineteenth century to today. Through a focus on key films and significant epochs, the course traces the evolution of form, style and genre, the medium's changing technologies and business models, as well as film and media's relation to broader cultural, social and political contexts. Screenings of narrative, documentary and experimental films and video will be accompanied by readings in film and media theory and history.#
&VISST 3342 | Human Perception: Application to Computer Graphics, Art, and Visual Display&
#Our present technology allows us to transmit and display information through a variety of media. To make the most of these media channels, it is important to consider the limitations and abilities of the human observer. The course considers a number of applied aspects of human perception with an emphasis on the display of visual information. Topics include "three-dimensional" display systems, color theory, spatial and temporal limitations of the visual systems, attempts at subliminal communication, and "visual" effects in film and television.#
&VISST 3600 | Contemporary Art: 1960-Present&
#This course discusses new art practices since the 1960s. Although numerous artistic experiments took place during the first half of the twentieth century, it was with the declining importance of modernist painting and sculpture by the late 1950s that newer modes of artistic practice became established. The course will explore the rise of Fluxus, Minimalism, Conceptualism, Land Art, Video and Performance, Postmodernism, and Postcolonialism. These practices are situated in relation to intellectual and social movements since the 1960s, including counterculture, feminism, race, ecology, institutional critique, and globalization. This course focuses primarily on Western European and North American art, but also incorporates selected global developments.#
&VISST 3758 | Technology and the Moving Body I&
#Formally titled "technosomakinesics," this class works to expand the specific aesthetics related to dance as embodied performance. Included in the process is the analysis of built environments that both inspire and are designed to be inhabited by these disciplines. This course explores the resulting neoperformance forms being created within the range of digital media processing; such as gallery installations, multimedia dance-theatre, personal interactive media (games and digital art) and web projects. Computer-imaging and sound-production programs are examined and used in the class work (human form-animation software, vocal recording and digital editing, digital-imaging tools. The new context of digital performance raises questions concerning the use of traditional lighting, set, costume, and sound-design techniques that are examined as they are repositioned by digital-translation tools with the goal of creating experimental and/or conceptual multimedia performance and/or installation work. Theoretical texts on dance and theatrical performance, film studies, the dynamic social body, architecture, and digital technology are also used to support conceptual creative work.#
&VISST 4155 | Topics in Latin American Art&
#Topic: Latin American Moderinsims and Technology. The involvement of Latin American artists with modern media technologies dates at least to the late nineteenth century and has especially flourished in the last three decades. The canonical histories and criticism of Latin American art for the most part depict a history of artistic production in which technology plays a minor or invisible role. This construction of history reinforces the assumption that experimentation, innovation, and theorization in technological art are exclusive provinces of the developed world. As the history of art expands to include diverse areas of media arts and visual culture, the recognition of Latin American artists' involvement with technology is not only overdue but also essential to the development of more diverse and rigorous understandings of both modernity and modernism.#
&VISST 4556 | Decolonial Poetics and Aesthetics: Arts of Resistance in the Americas&
#Exploring a genealogy of Latinx, Afro-Latinx, Black, Indigenous, and Chicana/o/x theorizations of modernity and identity, the course asks, what is the decolonial? Is it a space between the colonial and post-colonial? Is it a creative process, an intellectual theorization, or a historical period? Is it a performance, intervention, or embodied experience? Tracing a historical trajectory of the decolonial in poetry, performance, installation, and visual art, the course examines decolonial modes of making and being from the sixteenth to the twenty first century.#
&VISST 4855 | Threads of Consequence: Textiles in South and Southeast Asia&
#This seminar explores how patterned cloths serve as a symbolic medium, functioning on multiple levels of understanding and communication. As spun, dyed, and woven threads of consequence, textiles can be seen to enter into all phases of social, economic, political, religious, and performance processes, often assuming unusual properties and attributes. As bearers of talismanic messages, signifiers of rank, and as the recipients of influences from maritime trade and touristic demand, textiles are read between the folds of complex exchange mechanisms in South and Southeast Asia.#
&VISST 6155 | Topics in Latin American Art&
#Topic: Latin American Modernisms and Technology. The involvement of Latin American artists with modern media technologies dates at least to the late nineteenth century and has especially flourished in the last three decades. The canonical histories and criticism of Latin American art for the most part depict a history of artistic production in which technology plays a minor or invisible role. This construction of history reinforces the assumption that experimentation, innovation, and theorization in technological art are exclusive provinces of the developed world. As the history of art expands to include diverse areas of media arts and visual culture, the recognition of Latin American artists' involvement with technology is not only overdue but also essential to the development of more diverse and rigorous understandings of both modernity and modernism.#
&VISST 6556 | Decolonial Poetics and Aesthetics: Arts of Resistance in the Americas&
#Exploring a genealogy of Latinx, Afro-Latinx, Black, Indigenous, and Chicana/o/x theorizations of modernity and identity, the course asks, what is the decolonial? Is it a space between the colonial and post-colonial? Is it a creative process, an intellectual theorization, or a historical period? Is it a performance, intervention, or embodied experience? Tracing a historical trajectory of the decolonial in poetry, performance, installation, and visual art, the course examines decolonial modes of making and being from the sixteenth to the twenty first century.#
&VISST 6855 | Threads of Consequence: Textiles in South and Southeast Asia&
#This seminar explores how patterned cloths serve as a symbolic medium, functioning on multiple levels of understanding and communication. As spun, dyed, and woven threads of consequence, textiles can be seen to enter into all phases of social, economic, political, religious, and performance processes, often assuming unusual properties and attributes. As bearers of talismanic messages, signifiers of rank, and as the recipients of influences from maritime trade and touristic demand, textiles are read between the folds of complex exchange mechanisms in South and Southeast Asia.#


$VTBMS | Veterinary Medicine BioMedical Sciences$
&VTBMS 6501 | Natural Engineering: Developmental Biology Paradigms for Regenerative Medicine&
#This course is in two modules. The first module (1 credit) identifies fundamental biophysical mechanisms and systems engineering of early embryonic development (cleavage, gastrulation) and axis patterning. The second module (2 credits) extends these fundamentals to fetal maturation of several major organ systems, including lung, heart, vascular, and bone from an engineer's perspective (evolutionary conservation, major signaling pathways involved, etc). We further identify relationships between developmental biology and postnatal diseases, as well as explore developmental biology-based approaches for regenerative medicine (directed stem cell differentiation, mechanical conditioning, matrix based differentiation, etc.). Material is drawn largely from primary literature. Students have regular manuscript reviews, two midterms, and a final project analyzing the natural engineering of a different organ system.#
&VTBMS 7020 | The Practice of Laboratory Animal Medicine&
#A laboratory animal veterinarian must be trained in the regulatory aspects of research and teaching utilizing animals; in addition they must understand the principles of facility management and design. Also, to work with researchers, a lab animal veterinarian must have knowledge of basic research methodologies and animal welfare issues. This course may also be of interest to other veterinarians, veterinary students, and researchers who wish to understand the workings of the specialized field that oversees and enables the use of animals in research and teaching. The topics covered include: Laboratory Animal Medicine: Laws, Regulations, and Policies; Design and Management of Animal Facilities; Anesthesia, Analgesia, and Euthanasia; Techniques of Experimentation; Control of Biohazards used in animal research; Selected zoonoses/xenozoonoses; Genetic monitoring; Transgenic and knock-out mice; Factors influencing animal research; Animal models in biomedical research; Research in Lab Animal and Comparative Medicine; Lab Animal Behavior. The course will meet for 1 hour weekly and will extend over the course of two years, though each term is independent and can be taken separately.#
&VTBMS 7030 | The Biology and Diseases of Laboratory Animals&
#Intended for veterinarians entering the field of laboratory animal medicine.  It may also be of interest to other veterinarians, veterinary students, and researchers with a basic knowledge of anatomy and pathology who use animals in research or teaching.  This course will cover the main laboratory animal species (rodents, rabbits, non-human primates, ruminants, swine, dogs, cats, ferrets, reptiles, amphibians, and fish).  The biology, husbandry, diseases, pathology, and main research uses of these species will be covered.  The course will meet for 2 hours weekly and will extend over the course of two years.#
&VTBMS 7130 | Cell Cycle Analysis&
#Presents a brief historical review of the cell cycle; a summary of cell cycle regulatory processes; and practical methods for cell cycle analysis, including mathematical representations. Topics include: growth control of bacterial cell cycle including chemostats, mammalian cell tissue culture, cell synchronization, flow cytometry, age-density representation, G1 regulation, labile regulatory protein models, cell transformation, regulation by growth factors and the cytoskeleton, cyclin/E2F/RB regulatory model, practical examples for analysis of cell cycle phase durations, cell cycle phase specific growth factor sensitivity, timing of RB protein phosphorylation within the cell cycle. The objective of the course is to present graduate students with methods for cell cycle analyses that will be used in their research.#
&VTBMS 7200 | Biomedical and Biological Sciences Seminar&
#Designed to train graduate students in public presentation and critical analysis of scientific data. Students are required to give a seminar on their research, and provide constructive feedback to others on the quality of their presentation and data.#


$VTMED | Veterinary Medicine Professional Curriculum$
&VTMED 5220 | Neuroanatomy&
#This course introduces students to the anatomy and clinically relevant functioning of the nervous system, with an emphasis on the central nervous system. Students begin by studying the gross anatomy of the brain, spinal cord, cranial cavity and vertebral canal including the meninges and vasculature associated with the CNS. Clinical applications in anesthesia and radiology, such as epidural anesthesia, myelography and MRI are covered. As the course progresses, students learn how the nervous system functions in various contexts including spinal and cranial nerve reflexes, autonomic regulation, somatosensory and visual pathways  and motor control. Clinical applications covered include anatomical localization of nervous system lesions based on neurological exam findings and the effects of pain and stress on aspects of physiology via CNS pathways.#
&VTMED 5300 | Function and Dysfunction: Part I (Foundation Course IIIa)&
#Designed to develop students' understanding of how an animal maintains itself as a functional organism; how the maintenance of function is achieved through the integration of different organ systems; how tissue structure relates to tissue function; how injury alters structure and leads to dysfunction, manifested as clinical signs; how organ function can be assessed; and how organ function can be modulated pharmacologically.  The course incorporates aspects of physiology, biochemistry, cell biology, histology, pathology and histopathology, clinical pathology and pharmacology.#
&VTMED 5500 | Animal Health and Disease: Part I (Foundation Course V)&
#Commencing with sections on Clinical Pathology and Fluid and Electrolyte Disorders, the course progresses to dermatology, cardiology, ophthalmology, respiratory, infectious diseases, neurology, population medicine, musculoskeletal disorders, and some miscellaneous topics, and a surgical skills laboratory, with relevant aspects of applied pharmacology included in some sections. The course is presented on a system - oriented basis, focusing on clinical signs of alteration in function, pathophysiology of clinical signs, and strategies for diagnosis and treatment of the most important veterinary diseases. This course provides a sound foundation for clinical rotations in Foundation Course VI.#
&VTMED 5520 | Diagnostic Imaging&
#Diagnostic imaging is an essential part of veterinary medicine; it takes part in many elective and emergency procedures as well as in diagnostic and management of patient's care. While multiple imaging modalities are used, radiography and ultrasonography are performed most often and therefore the focus of this course. Advance imaging techniques, however, are incorporated into some topics. General practitioners perform and initially interpret most veterinary imaging studies. Therefore, the goal of this course is to prepare students for the level of a graduating veterinarian, not a specialty-trained radiologist. This 8-week course consists of weekly lectures (2-4 hours), labs (0-2 sessions), and reading assignments. These activities will include large and small animal imaging and are designed to optimize student's development of pattern recognition, retention of material, and ability to correctly interpret imaging findings considering clinical presentation and application to patient care.#
&VTMED 5600 | Ambulatory and Production Medicine&
#Clinical service rotation in which students accompany ambulatory clinicians on farm and stable calls and learn the skills and procedures necessary for operation of a modern veterinary practice offering primary care to large animal clients. Routine herd health visits are conducted for cattle, horses, sheep, goats, and swine. Reproductive evaluations (including pregnancy and fertility examinations), nutritional evaluation, and disease prevention are stressed. Herd health programs also include vaccinations, parasite control, mastitis prevention, and routine procedures. With appropriate herds, analysis of computerized performance data is conducted and discussed with the owner. In addition to assisting with routine scheduled work, students participate in diagnosis and medical or surgical treatment of ill or injured animals. This includes rotating assignments for night and weekend duty.#
&VTMED 5601 | Small Animal Community Practice&
#Our community practice, housed in a stand-alone facility as of June 2018, offers full services for our patients of all life stages including preventive medicine, radiology, dentistry, and surgery. Our primary care practice is designed to provide our clinical year students with experience in appointments, procedures, surgery, client communications, and cloud-based electronic medical records to prepare them as entry level veterinarians upon graduation from the CUCVM. The goals and design of the Small Animal Community Practice are to model a non-academic general practice setting where students act as primary case clinicians collecting histories, performing physical exams, assessing their patients, and creating diagnostic and therapeutic plans individualized to a given patient and client. Student clinicians are supervised by rotation faculty and supported by licensed veterinary technicians.#
&VTMED 5602 | Small Animal Medicine&
#Structured to provide supervised clinical experience in the practice of small animal medicine.  The course is conducted in the Companion Animal Hospital of the Cornell University Hospital for Animals.  Students interact directly with clients presenting their pets for primary or referral medical care.  Under the supervision of the clinical faculty and staff, the students are expected to formulate and carry out plans for the diagnostic evaluation and medical management of these patients.#
&VTMED 5603 | Small Animal Soft Tissue Surgery Service&
#Clinical service rotation that exposes the student to the practice of soft tissue surgery within the companion animal hospital. Students participate in morning and evening patient rounds, appointments, clinical decision making (diagnostics, medical and surgical interventions), and daily patient care under the direction of the faculty and house officers of the surgery service. Students are afforded the opportunity to assist and observe in the operating room. Patient care, client communication, goal-oriented decision making, and an introduction to abdominal surgery are emphasized.Clinical service rotation that exposes the student to the practice of soft tissue surgery within the companion animal hospital. Students participate in morning and evening patient rounds, appointments, clinical decision making (diagnostics, medical and surgical interventions), and daily patient care under the direction of the faculty and house officers of the surgery service. Students are afforded the opportunity to assist and observe in the operating room. Patient care, client communication, a variety of treatment options to fit different real-world scenarios and an introduction to abdominal surgery are emphasized.#
&VTMED 5604 | Large Animal Medicine Service&
#Students assigned to this service participate with the faculty, technicians, and residents of the Large Animal Medicine service in the diagnosis and care of patients.  The goal of this course is for students to acquire knowledge and skills in history taking, physical examination, selection and completion of appropriate ancillary tests, diagnosis, treatment plan, and patient care.  Daily rounds and discussions are used to monitor patient progress and further educate students. If time allows, sit-down rounds to discuss medical disorders are provided.#
&VTMED 5605 | Large Animal Surgery&
#Clinical rotation structured to provide supervised clinical experience in the practice of large animal surgery. Under the direction of faculty and house staff, students participate in the diagnosis, surgical treatment, and care of patients presented to the Equine and Farm Animal Hospital. Training through patient care is supplemented by formal rounds and didactic instruction.#
&VTMED 5606 | Anesthesiology Service&
#The course is designed to provide clinical experience in the use of anesthetics in small companion animals, horses, and farm animals. Students participate in selecting suitable anesthetic techniques for patients in the Cornell University Hospital for Animals and then implement those techniques under the supervision of faculty and residents. The goal is for students to learn the skills and the thought processes necessary to perform safe anesthesia in a modern veterinary practice and to provide perioperative analgesia. Students planning to enter equine, production, or mixed animal practice who elect to take a second anesthesia rotation can choose to spend this rotation exclusively in the Equine and Nemo Farm Animal Hospitals.#
&VTMED 5607 | Dermatology Service&
#During this clinical rotation, students participate in the diagnosis and management of skin disorders in small and large animals. Patients are examined by appointment and through consultation with other hospital services. Mandatory rounds are conducted either in-person or through recordings as determined by the rotation's service chief. Quizzes may be given at the discretion of the service chief to assess dermatology knowledge and progress.#
&VTMED 5608 | Ophthalmology Service&
#A large inpatient and outpatient referral case load plus numerous inpatient consultations for other hospital services allow students to become confident acquiring the beginning skills needed for diagnostic ophthalmology. Students perform many routine ophthalmic diagnostic tests (Schirmer tear testing, fluorescein staining, tonometry) and learn and gain confidence using indirect ophthalmoscopes, slit lamps, and tonometers.  Students are introduced to other ocular diagnostic tests, including culture, cytology, ultrasound, as well as more advanced diagnostic modalities according to the caseload. The rotation provides students an opportunity to observe common and uncommon therapeutic and surgical procedures. Many of the ophthalmology cases are complex referral cases but adequate routine case material is presented to prepare students for the common eye problems seen in veterinary practice.  A competent ocular examination is the goal of this rotation.#
&VTMED 5609 | Pathology Service&
#The pathology rotation strives to integrate gross pathology with other diagnostic modalities.  Students will work in groups of four to six for the two week rotation performing necropsies on mammals, birds, exotic species, and laboratory animals under the guidance of anatomic pathology faculty and residents.  Students will prepare written reports of the necropsies performed and discuss the findings at daily morning rounds. Students will also be instructed by faculty of the Animal Health Diagnostic Center with expertise in ancillary diagnostic techniques.  Students are expected to learn to use diagnostic testing regimens as integral parts of comprehensive diagnostic and therapeutic plans.  Instruction will consist primarily of the discussion of clinical cases with emphasis on laboratory diagnostics.  Students are expected to lead and participate in these discussions and will be evaluated on their ability to do so.#
&VTMED 5610 | Radiology Service&
#A two-week clinical experience in the imaging section of the Cornell University Hospital for Animals.  Students use radiographic, ultrasonographic, CT, MRI, and nuclear medicine imaging techniques to evaluate animal patients under treatment in the Cornell University Hospital for Animals.  Students obtain and interpret radiographic and ultrasonographic studies with guidance from radiology faculty, residents and technical staff.  On-line teaching materials  are used to familiarize students with radiographic and  cross-sectional imaging examples of common diseases of large and small animal species.  Small-group discussions are included to present and discuss the teaching files and current cases, in addition to the safe use of x-ray producing equipment.#
&VTMED 5611 | Small Animal Clinical Emergency and Critical Care Medicine&
#Management of both emergent and critical cases represents a significant component of the practice of veterinary medicine. The focus of this clinical rotation will be the development of a knowledge base and a comprehensive set of skills necessary for a veterinarian to perform adequately in these areas, within a structured format. These skills will include the appropriate evaluation (triage) and stabilization of emergency patients, the management of post-operative and other critical patients, and sensitive and effective client communication. Participants access relevant information from various sources related to emergency and critical care medicine and understand and apply these principles to clinical cases. Students will participate in the management of incoming emergency cases as well as having primary patient care responsibilities in both intensive care and intermediate care units. Students will work closely with interns, residents, technicians, and faculty on the Emergency & Critical Care Service to become familiar with technical and nursing procedures as well as to develop clinical skills and a systematic approach to clinical cases.#
&VTMED 5612 | Fourth-Year Seminar&
#This required course gives each senior student the responsibility and opportunity of selecting and studying a disease entity on the basis of a case or series of cases, or to conduct a short-term, clinically oriented research project under the direction of a faculty member.  In either instance, an oral report will be presented at a weekly seminar.  A written report is also submitted within 2 weeks after the seminar.  All participants are encouraged to foster an atmosphere in which discussion, exchange of ideas, and the airing of controversial opinions might flourish. Veterinary students of all four classes and all faculty and staff members are also invited and encouraged to attend.#
&VTMED 5613 | Small Animal Surgery Orthopedic Surgery Service&
#Clinical service rotation that exposes the student to the practice of orthopedic surgery and medicine within a hospital environment. Students participate in rounds; diagnostic techniques; planning of therapy; and daily care of dogs and cats under the direction of an intern, surgical residents, and/or faculty. Students assist experienced surgeons in the operating room. Client communications and the basics of orthopedics in general practice are emphasized. Students are expected to be able to successfully perform an orthopedic examination and localize the lameness by the end of the rotation.Clinical service rotation that exposes the student to the practice of orthopedic surgery and medicine under hospital conditions. Students participate in rounds; diagnostic techniques; planning of therapy; and daily care of dogs and cats under the direction of an intern, surgical residents in training, and faculty. Students assist experienced surgeons in the operating room. Client communications and the basics of orthopedics in general practice are emphasized. Students are expected to be able to successfully perform an orthopedic examination and localize the lameness by the end of the rotation.#
&VTMED 5702 | Veterinary Practice: Ethics and Animal Care (Foundation Course VIIb)&
#Consists of lectures, small group discussion sessions, surgical skills and PE labs. Lectures average 2 hours each week, covering a variety of topics with some ethical dimension of importance to professional veterinarians.  Students participate in two small group discussion sessions in which they discuss topics of interest and work through provided scenarios.  In addition, each student completes a research and writing assignment on a topic of their choice.#
&VTMED 5703 | Veterinary Practice: Communication Skills (Foundation Course VIIc)&
#This course introduces students to medical record keeping and to the communication and leadership skills and techniques necessary for effective communication with clients, professional colleagues, and co-workers. Core career development and personal financial planning material is introduced in this course. The laboratory portion of the course includes clinical skills labs in which students are introduced to basic procedures including IV, SQ and IM injection performed on small animals, cows, and horses. In addition, students participate in a core surgical skills lab; content includes review material and introduction of new suture patterns.#
&VTMED 5705 | Veterinary Practice: Public Health (Foundation Course VIIe)&
#Veterinary training and expertise places veterinarians at the interface between humans and animals, making you an advocate for both. Our professional oath reminds us of this duality with inclusion of the phrase, "for the benefit of society." This course will provide an overview of the veterinarian's broad public health role and provide the knowledge and skills necessary to prevent zoonotic diseases, maintain a safe food supply, preserve antimicrobial effectiveness, and promote One Health.#
&VTMED 6100 | Anatomy of the Carnivore&
#Students study carnivore anatomy by detailed systematic and regional dissection of the cat, with comparison to the dog.  Student dissection is supplemented with prosections, radiographs, palpation of live cats, and exercises focusing on surgical approaches.  There are opportunities to dissect other carnivores, such as the ferret and the fox, depending on availability of specimens.  The lectures augment the laboratory dissection, and introduce the student to clinical anatomy of the cat and functional morphological comparative features in the Order Carnivora, as well as introduce topics in feline medicine and surgery.  Students do an independent research project on the carnivore species of their choice, and give an oral presentation on this to the class.#
&VTMED 6101 | Anatomy of the Horse&
#Organized as a traditional anatomy course that relies primarily on students learning the anatomy of horses through hands-on dissection laboratories augmented by lectures and highlighted by clinical correlations. An understanding of anatomy that provides the foundation for surgery and medicine. Its relevance to clinical practice is emphasized by the regional approach to dissection. Most lectures emphasize structural-functional correlations that are unique or important in the horse. Student dissection cadavers will be supplemented by skeletal materials, radiographs, models, preserved pre-dissected specimens, and fresh specimens when they are available.#
&VTMED 6102 | Anatomy of the Ruminant&
#Covers the regional anatomy of several ruminant species using dissection laboratories, procedure laboratories, and lectures. Emphasizes the functional consequences of structural modifications and anatomical features relevant to clinical practice. Microscopic anatomy is correlated with gross anatomy when appropriate to relate structure to function and to provide a foundation for later study in pathology. Student dissection material is supplemented by skeletal materials, radiographs, models, predissected specimens, and postmortem specimens. Students are required to complete an independent study project on a relevant subject of their choice. Assessment includes practical examination.#
&VTMED 6103 | Comparative Anatomy: Pattern and Function&
#The aim of this course is to give students an understanding of the diversity of forms and functions in the vertebrate body. By the end of the course, students will have worked with a plethora of different vertebrates and these experiences will provide a framework to handle unfamiliar species that they encounter in veterinary practice (including mammals, birds, reptiles, amphibians, fish). Rather than dive deeply into a single species as we did in Block 1, we build upon knowledge of the dog to examine a variety of different species. As a result, we do not go into the same level of detail on all species at all times and will instead focus our efforts on understanding unusual or useful anatomical aspects of each animal that we work with.#
&VTMED 6120 | Anatomy and Histology of Fish&
#Provides an overview of the diversity of anatomy and histology of fish. Students participate in lecture, discussion, and laboratory exercises to review the major organ systems. Extensive use of virtual microscopy and assigned readings is expected. Each student prepares a term paper and makes one oral presentation.#
&VTMED 6324 | Applied Pharmacology with an Emphasis on Antimicrobial Therapy&
#Familiarizes students with antimicrobial drugs used in veterinary practice. Builds on fundamental pharmacological and microbiological principles covered in Course 5400, considers antibacterial, antifungal, antiprotozoal, and antiviral drugs from the point of view of unique pharmacokinetic properties, indications for clinical use, and potential toxicities as the basis for rational use.#
&VTMED 6328 | Veterinary Clinical Toxicology&
#Provides veterinary students with a solid introduction to concepts and principles of toxicology and how they are applied in the clinical setting.  Students learn about specific common toxicants, clinical signs in affected animals, and treatment protocols for the toxicants in question.  Students also gain an understanding of the clinical approach to suspected or unknown toxicoses, sample collection and handling, and resources available for clinical toxicologic problems.  The course is conducted with three one-hour lectures per week and one hour-long large group discussion per week.  Grades are based on weekly homework assignments, quizzes, a midterm, and a final exam.#
&VTMED 6330 | Basic Nutrition for Veterinary Students&
#Introduction to nutrition, including basic concepts in metabolism from a comparative aspect.  This class will focus primarily on monogastric nutrition with some comparisons to hindgut and foregut fermenters.  Lifestage nutrition and common ailments including osteoarthirits, obesity, immunology and cognitive dysfunction will be highlighted as common ailments for nutritional intervention in companion animals (dogs, cats).#
&VTMED 6421 | Epidemiology of Infectious Diseases&
#Introduces the epidemiologic methods used in infectious disease investigations.  Also discusses the importance of surveillance systems in detecting modern epidemics and in the development of effective disease prevention and control strategies.  Emphasizes understanding the relationships between the host, the agent and the environment as they relate to disease causation.  Explores contemporary epidemiologic methods applicable to old diseases that remain real or potential problems, newly emerging infectious diseases, and nosocomial infections.  Selected diseases are discussed to clarify the role of epidemiology in understanding the pathogenesis of infectious processes in individuals and groups of animals.  The students have the opportunity to apply the methods learned to actual disease problems and write an epidemiologic report that might lead to a publication in a peer reviewed scientific journal.#
&VTMED 6423 | Clinical Diagnostic Parasitology&
#The course is intended to give students experience in diagnosing parasitic infections by performing appropriate parasitological testing methods on clinical samples from patients on their rotation. Students evaluate the test results in terms of treatment or management of the infections. If clinical specimens are not available, appropriate materials are provided for study and evaluation. Ambulatory students typically do qualitative and perhaps quantitative flotations on samples from large animal cases they have encountered that week. In CPS, one hour is spent testing samples from current dog and cat patients, while a second hour is devoted to a discussion of the treatment of common endo-and ecto-parasites. Pathology students typically examine and identify intact parasites they retrieved from various organs at necropsy and review common parasites of hosts encountered. This course is considered to be a logical extension to Foundation Course IV, Host, Agent, and Defense, and is expected to build on the didactic material presented in Large and Small Animal Parasitology.#
&VTMED 6425 | Introduction to Shelter Medicine&
#The course will cover 8 hours of lecture on very basic shelter medicine principles, to include the history of sheltering and humane organizations, issues with pet overpopulation and free roaming companion animals, animal cruelty, an overview of preventive medicine and population health in shelters, sanitation and disinfection, and population management.#
&VTMED 6430 | Veterinary Perspectives on Pathogen Control in Animal Manure&
#In-depth look at the management of pathogens in animal manures. Reviews the pathogens involved, the role of governing agencies, the survival of pathogens in the field, and methods of pathogen destruction. Discusses commercial methods of manure processing for the control of these pathogens for the protection of other animals and the human population. Concludes with class discussions with major stakeholders representing the dairy, beef, pork, and poultry industries and their understanding of the problem as it relates to veterinary students.#
&VTMED 6431 | Microbial Safety of Animal-Based Foods&
#The course will cover the main issues and pathogens relevant to the safety of animal-based foods. The course will consist of lectures and discussions on topics of pre-and post-harvest food safety and various pathogenic microorganisms of importance.  Instructor-led discussions will focus on emerging new issues in food safety and approaches that can be used to assure the safety of animal-based foods.#
&VTMED 6432 | Fish Health Management&
#This lecture and laboratory course provides an overview of fish health management in commercial aquaculture, aquarium systems, and natural waters. The laboratory is designed to provide students with a knowledge base and hands-on fish necropsy, diagnostic, anesthesia, blood collection, imaging and fish health management in large and small aquatic systems. Students will maintain and manage small aquarium systems to gain an appreciation for the science behind the operation of those systems. This course requires time outside the normal scheduled class sessions for management of the aquariums and for an external visit to an aquatic facility. Student evaluation will be comprised of four parts: (1) participation to course and labs, (2) maintenance of aquariums and lab report, (3) written assignment on a topic related to fish health, and (4) presentation of this paper written assignment in class.#
&VTMED 6434 | Advanced Shelter Medicine&
#The course will cover more advanced topics in shelter medicine practice: management of common infectious diseases, facilities and housing, quality of life and humane euthanasia, behavioral programs, high quality high volume spay neuter, veterinary forensic exams, shelter neonates, community cats, safety net programs, and regulatory matters affecting shelters and shelter practice.#
&VTMED 6436 | Directing Community Practice&
#The format is a both peer-mentored and service-learning which takes place in a clinical setting. Eight student directors organize and supervise bimonthly healthy pet clinics where they mentor other, less experienced students to provide preventative veterinary care to animals of under served citizens in the Ithaca community.#
&VTMED 6437 | Infectious Diseases and Management of Poultry&
#An introductory course covering poultry diseases, general health, and management. Emphasis is placed on diseases of economic importance and the most common viral, mycoplasma, bacterial, fungal, parasitic and nutritional diseases of poultry species. Students learn about the etiology, transmission, clinical signs, lesions, diagnosis, treatment, prevention and control of the diseases.#
&VTMED 6526 | Small Animal Clinical Nutrition&
#This course will cover nutritional intervention in disease (cardiac, LUTD, renal, hepatic, osteoarthritis, critical care, immunonutrition, GI diseases, allergic disease, cognition, sarcopenia, endocrine diseases, obesity). Each lecture will cover a different topic starting with the mechanism of disease and then focus on the basic medical and in depth nutrition treatment of the disease process including the therapeutic diets available to help ameliorate the medical condition.#
&VTMED 6527 | Veterinary Aspects of Captive Wildlife Management&
#This course will review principles of captive zoo and wild animal management. Students will be challenged to learn and integrate a variety of disciplines that are essential to managing these animals successfully in a captive or semi-free-ranging environment. These disciplines include but are not limited to species-specific: (1) behavior and behavioral requirements, (2) nutritional requirements and problems, (3) natural history, (4) zoonotic and toxicological problems, (5) manual restraint and anesthesia, (6) preventive medicine, and (7) medical and legal ethics. The most common species will be presented in lectures, student presentations and special activities.#
&VTMED 6530 | Llama Tutorial&
#Autotutorial or group tutorial course covering common problems of llamas and alpacas. Participants are provided with study guides consisting of brief case descriptions and sample study questions. Reference is made to textbooks and journal articles to assist students in finding the answers to the questions efficiently. Grading is based on an oral exam.#
&VTMED 6533 | Advanced Equine Lameness&
#Designed to teach students the methodology of equine lameness diagnosis.  Places a strong emphasis on a hands-on approach to learning and is primarily laboratory-based.  During laboratories, students work in small groups on live horses to diagnose the cause of their lameness.  To this end, students learn both the practical skills, such as perineural and intra-particular blocks, as well as the methodology necessary to systematically work up a lameness case.  Laboratories also provide students with the opportunity to practice field radiography and gain ultrasound skills as they pertain to equine lameness.  Additionally, students have the opportunity to practice basic farrier skills.  Lecture topics are intended to round out the students' understanding of lameness by providing them with a knowledge base of the common causes of lameness, organized by response to local anesthesia.   Imaging interpretation is emphasized through case discussions.  The course is recommmended for students anticipating entry into equine practice.  Students seeking hands-on experience with horses are also welcome.#
&VTMED 6534 | Equine Reproduction&
#The goal of this course is to provide the fundamental knowledge and skills necessary for application of routine and advanced practices in equine reproduction.  This will be accomplished through hands-on experiences during laboratory sessions as well as lectures focused on the reproductive anatomy, physiology, behavior, and management of mares, stallions, and neonatal foals.#
&VTMED 6536 | Advanced Dairy Reproduction&
#Offers lectures and labs that provide both theoretical and practical training in current approaches to the veterinary aspects of dairy cow reproductive care and management.  The aim is to empower the student with entry level, current knowledge and skills for the reproductive aspects of any modern dairy practice.#
&VTMED 6538 | Special Problems in Equine Medicine&
#This course is intended for students interested in providing care to horses upon graduation (equine or mixed practice). Relevant equine medicine topics will be covered including equine cardiology, antimicrobial use and other. This class has 2h each week for 4-weeks.Intended for students anticipating equine practice. In-depth study of important diseases, review of recent literature, health management presented by private practitioners,demonstrations on complementary medicine, and talks on specialty equine practice are the core of this course.#
&VTMED 6539 | Disorders of Large-Animal Neonates&
#Introductory neonatology course.  The emphasis is on the wellness examinations and preventative care for neonatal calves, crias, lambs, kids and foals in the first few days of life.  Followed by exploration of the medical and surgical problems of neonates with an emphasis on the foal.  Students also spend several hours in the neonatal intensive care unit providing nursing care of hospitalized patients under staff supervision.#
&VTMED 6541 | Surgical Pathology&
#Provides hands-on experience in the Surgical Pathology Service of the Department of Biomedical Sciences. Working with the attending pathologist, students examine tissue specimens histologically, propose diagnoses, and discuss their interpretations. Students may enroll in this course only through the Office of Student Records within the official add/drop period. All requests to enroll must be accompanied by the Supplemental Enrollment Form indicating Dr. McDonough's approval of the enrollment and the amount of credit to be awarded. Second-year students should not enroll for any term other than summer unless they have actually reserved a January or spring-break slot through Dr. McDonough.#
&VTMED 6542 | Medical and Surgical Problems of Dairy Cattle: Emphasis on the Individual Animal&
#This lecture-based course provides students in-depth material on special problems in bovine medicine and surgery.  The course covers the most common diseases of dairy cattle with a focus on the diagnosis and treatment of individual animals.#
&VTMED 6543 | Advanced Small Animal Medicine&
#The course expands on core knowledge gained in Foundation Course V through lectures and/or case discussions. The material will focus on current "hot" topics of controversies in small animal medicine, or expand on complicated or unusual presentations of material not covered in Foundation Course V. This course aims to both reinforce basic concepts and introduce more advanced topics to help prepare students for entry into small animal practice.#
&VTMED 6545 | Sheep and Goat Medicine&
#Discusses diagnosis, treatment, and prevention of medical and surgical problems of individual small ruminants and of sheep and goat herds. Basic information on breeds, behavior, nutritional requirements, and management systems is supplied. Economically important contagious or metabolic diseases are discussed in depth. The diagnostic evaluation and differential diagnoses for common clinical presentations such as skin disease, neurologic disease, lameness, and mastitis are considered. Herd monitoring of economically important parameters and necropsy diagnosis of abortions and neonatal losses are addressed. Breeding systems, pregnancy diagnosis methods, correction of dystocias, and common surgical procedures are discussed and demonstrated in laboratory sessions. Also offered as an autotutorial during summer and distribution periods in spring.#
&VTMED 6546 | Sheep and Goat Medicine: Lab&
#The laboratory sessions will provide the opportunity for students to visit and evaluate local sheep and goat herds and to learn about the economics and health problems associated with their operation. Milk, meat, and fiber production will be discussed as will infectious and parasitic diseases.  Additional laboratory sessions will address neonatal care and necropsy, reproduction and dystocia management, parasite diagnostic and control measures, and routine surgeries such as disbudding, dehorning, docking, castration, and vasectomy using cadaver specimens.#
&VTMED 6547 | Clinical Ophthalmology&
#The principles and practice of entry-level veterinary ophthalmology introduced in Foundation Course V, Introduction to Veterinary Ophthalmology, are supplemented by lectures and discussions that emphasize species differences, basic surgical decision-making, and recognition of ocular conditions appropriate for referral.  Class periods will be devoted to management of ocular emergencies, ocular surgeries that can be performed by general practitioners, large animal ophthalmology, and exotic animal ophthalmology.#
&VTMED 6548 | Dairy Production Medicine&
#This course will introduce students to dairy production medicine concepts and strategies for achieving dairy health, productivity, and profitability goals through service as bovine practitioners. Health and performance monitoring by the use of dairy records, disease prevention, and evidence-based approaches to dairy management will be stressed. Students should expect to develop their knowledge of dairy production systems and bovine practice, acquire skills for analyzing dairy performance, and strengthen their abilities to problem solve and communicate in groups.#
&VTMED 6550 | Clinical Pharmacology&
#Offered after Foundation Courses I-V and formal exposure to pharmacology course work is completed. The course is designed to familiarize students with drug use in the clinical setting. Pharmacological concepts are emphasized, with a focus on the rationale for drug choice, alternative drug choices available, pharmacokinetic considerations, and potential drug interactions/toxicities. This course is offered at the time students are about to embark on their clinical rotations. It is designed to emphasize practical aspects of pharmacology in the clinical setting, using basic concepts obtained during formal course work. The onus is placed on the student to explain/rationalize drugs currently employed clinically.#
&VTMED 6551 | Topics in Veterinary Emergency and Critical Care Medicine&
#This course builds upon the foundation built in Block V.  It will consist of a combination of lecture and case discussion sections.  Although all of the discussions will center on small animal medicine, the same principles often apply to both small animal and large animal situations.  Topics that MIGHT be covered include a selection from the following list: shock, trauma, stabilization, cardiopulmonary resuscitation, respiratory emergences, cardiac emergencies, endocrine emergencies, acute renal failure, hematologic emergencies, transfusion medicine, respiratory monitoring, hemodynamic monitoring, acute abdomen, emergency surgical procedures and sepsis.  The class will focus on both emergency stabilization and management of critically ill patients.#
&VTMED 6558 | Advanced Small Animal Clinical Oncology&
#Cancer is among the leading causes of morbidity and mortality in companion animals.  Prevention, diagnosis and management of cancer in companion animals represents a significant component of small animal clinical practice both in academia and the private sector.  The course will provide information on the biological behavior and management of additional types of cancers in dogs and cats not covered in the core material.  This information will also be supplemented by more information about new cancer therapies that are being introduced in to veterinary oncology, as well as information about managing chemotherapy complications.#
&VTMED 6559 | Applied Dairy Nutrition for Practitioners&
#Provides a foundation in the principles of dairy cattle nutrition for veterinary students interested in dairy production medicine.  Emphasizes integration of the principles of dairy cattle nutrition with practical rational formulation and with troubleshooting on dairy farms, both preventive and curative.#
&VTMED 6562 | Animal Pain&
#This course will build on the knowledge of pain in veterinary patients acquired in VTMED 5500 Animal Health and Disease (Foundation Course V). We will address the prevention, recognition, and treatment of pain across domestic and non-domestic species. Species-specific pain scoring systems will be introduced. Pharmacological and non-pharmacological treatment of adaptive and maladaptive pain will be presented, with an emphasis on pain management in primary care and emergency practice. Virtual attendance (or watching recorded lectures) is allowed. Grade is based on attendance, completion of online, case-based modules, and an open-book, case-based final examination.#
&VTMED 6566 | Canine and Feline Dermatology&
#Dogs and cats with skin diseases account fora large percentage of the patients seen in general companion animal practice. This course will emphasize the approach to diagnosis, treatment, and prognosis for common and often frustrating canine and feline cutaneous reaction patterns. The course will be taught using a multimodal approach utilizing videos, readings, home assignments, and in-person case discussion to promote learning. An open-book final quiz will be given at the end of the course.#
&VTMED 6567 | Equine Dermatology&
#Horses with skin diseases account for a significant portion of the patients seen in large animal practice. This course will emphasize the approach to diagnosis, treatment, and prognosis for common, and sometimes frustrating, equine derm cases. Attendance to class is mandatory. Attendance and final grade (S/U) determined by weekly attendance and may include weekly content quizzes.#
&VTMED 6568 | Dairy Herd Epidemiology and Economics&
#Veterinarians serving the dairy industry need a sophisticated understanding of population medicine, epidemiology and economics. This course will build on concepts covered in foundation courses and provide practice in applying epidemiology and economics principles to dairy production medicine. While focused on dairy cattle, the skills learned are applicable to other food animal production systems. The course will include lectures and computer laboratories; attendance and participation in group discussions and team problem solving is a key part of the course.#
&VTMED 6569 | Clinical Aspects of Non-Traditional Species&
#This course will provide a more indepth instruction in the clinical management of exotic small mammals, birds, reptiles, amphibians, and fish for students entering a variety of practice situations. Information will be covered by species and related to work discussed in previous courses and the core-curriculum. A introduction on the importance of evidence-based medicine in the context of exotic animal practice is provided to help students critically appraise treatment and diagnostic options. Lectures cover diagnostics and treatment of various species, with specific sessions on topics of particular importance (eg mammal spay, lagomorph and rodent dental disease). Sessions of group work are performed to help proactive learning from the class.#
&VTMED 6571 | Veterinary Clinical Immunology&
#Clinical immunology applies the knowledge of basic immunology to clinical conditions, allowing better understanding of pathophysiology of diseases, improvement of diagnosis, and treatment of modalities. The course will consist of topic lectures and peer-reviewed manuscript discussions on autoimmunity and allergy, immunodeficiency, immunologic testing and immunotherapy, inflammation; immunology of infectious diseases and vaccinology, immunology of cancer, and immunogenetics. Both small and large animal conditions will be discussed.#
&VTMED 6572 | Equine Sports Medicine&
#This course is focused for a student interested in equine veterinary practice, whether it be mixed practice or exclusively equine. This course runs alongside the equine lameness course and imaging course in C distribution period. The format will be interactive with case discussions and hands on laboratories. The course will provide an in depth evaluation of the performance horse on topics such as advanced equine lameness, tendon disorders, neck and back issues, myopathies, gait abnormalities, respiratory conditions, and cardiac disease. The focus will be on providing the student with the the tools to obtain an accurate diagnosis and then manage and treat the various disorders.This course is focused for a student interested in equine veterinary practice, whether it be mixed practice or exclusively equine. This course runs alongside the equine lameness course in C distribution period. The format will be interactive with case discussions and hands on laboratories. The course will provide an in depth evaluation of the performance horse on topics such as advanced equine lameness, tendon disorders, neck and back issues, gait abnormalities, respiratory conditions, cardiac disease, and regenerative medicine. The focus will be on providing the student with the the tools to obtain an accurate diagnosis and then manage and treat the various disorders.#
&VTMED 6576 | Introduction to Minimally Invasive Surgery&
#The course runs 8 hours per day for one week and enrollment is by application. Students interested in taking this course should submit a letter of interest and a current CV. The letter of interest should explain how this course will further the student's surgical skills or career. Preference will be given to 3rd year students. The objective of the course is to introduce students to laparoscopy and the equipment, instrumentation, skills and techniques necessary to perform minimally invasive surgical procedures. Enrolled students' progress will be assessed, and students must be willing to give consent for assessment and analysis of their skill development. The course is intended for students with a strong interest in small animal surgery.#
&VTMED 6577 | NYSCHAP&
#Herd Health and Biosecurity Risk Evaluation Using the NYS Cattle Health Assurance Program Model Introduces students to the identification of disease risk and evaluation of cattle operations, focusing on animal/herd health, food safety, and the environment. The course combines information on risk assessment, identification of priority issues, creation of herd plans, biosecurity, herd diseases such as Johne's, standard operating procedures, and environmental issues. Additionally, four local farms will be visited to provide students the opportunity to implement knowledge gained in lectures.#
&VTMED 6578 | Clinical Decision Making in Bovine Veterinary Practice&
#This course covers a variety of bovine scenarios encountered by clinicians in the Ambulatory and Production Medicine Clinic. Knowledge will focus on physical examination findings, use of diagnostic methods, treatment plans, and the economics of different treatment options. This is a self-paced course with a 1-hour class meeting each week to recap cases and answer questions. Upon successful completion, students will be able to diagnose the presented diseases based on history, photographs, or videos; develop treatment plans including appropriate drug use; understand there are multiple, acceptable ways to tackle a case; and identify resources for future learning opportunities.#
&VTMED 6579 | Large Animal Diagnostic Imaging&
#Including both case-based and hands-on practice, this mixed format course is designed to provide veterinary students with the imaging knowledge and interpretation skills necessary to succeed in large animal veterinary medicine. The course provides students with an understanding of all diagnostic modalities, with emphasis on radiography and ultrasonagraphy, organized by body regions. The imaging content is selected based on what is considered core material for the practicing veterinarian, including recognition of appropriateness of examination and modality. The course focuses on conditions affecting horses though as appropriate production animal imaging will be incorporated.#
&VTMED 6600 | Theriogenology Service&
#Exposure to clinical procedures in theriogenology as provided by Cornell University Hospital for Animals patient load and augmented by teaching herd animals. Exposure to clinical procedures in theriogenology as provided by Cornell University Hospital for Animals patient load and augmented by teaching herd animals. Clinical techniques taught include palpation and ultrasound evaluation, artificial insemination and pregnancy diagnosis in mares; semen collection and evaluation in stallions; and foaling monitoring and neonatal foal care. Additionally, students get exposure to breeding management and assisted reproduction in mares at the Equine Park and to theriogenology clinical cases and emergencies in CUHA comprising all equine, camelid, canine and bovine species.#
&VTMED 6601 | Cardiology Service&
#Provides students with the opportunity to put into practice what they have learned in the foundation years.  The management of the most common cardiac diseases are emphasized including congestive heart failure, arrhythmias, and secondary cardiac diseases.  All species are examined, large and small, although the majority are small animals.  Diagnostics including cardiovascular physical examination, electrocardiography, radiography, and echocardiography are taught.  The rotation includes clinical work, didactic teaching, and self-initiated digging for information.#
&VTMED 6602 | Laboratory Animal Medicine&
#Laboratory animal medicine is a diverse field in which veterinarians directly impact the well-being of animals used in research, teaching and testing. Laboratory animal veterinarians assist researchers in achieving their goals, while encouraging replacement, reduction, and refinement of animal use. Treatment of animals and preparation of preventive medicine programs requires the laboratory animal veterinarian to have knowledge of the biology and comparative medicine of a wide variety of species. It is also essential for laboratory animal veterinarians to have knowledge of research methodologies, and animal models of disease as well as a good understanding of state and federal regulations, and guidelines governing the use of animals. In addition, occupational health and safety, and animal facility design are important parts of an institutional animal care program, to which laboratory animal veterinarians have input. The diversity of species, and the novel circumstances that arise regularly in this field make laboratory animal medicine an exciting and unique discipline of veterinary medicine. This rotation is an introduction to the specialty of laboratory animal medicine.  Students are exposed to all aspects of a laboratory animal veterinarian's role. Activities include but are not limited to: accompanying laboratory animal veterinarians on clinical rounds of Cornell University's research animal facilities; participating in diagnostic and preventive medicine plans; attending review sessions on the biology, medicine, pathology, husbandry of traditional and non-traditional lab animal species; incorporating information on current legislation regulating the care and use of research animals; and exposure to various research activities on the Cornell University Campus.#
&VTMED 6605 | Special Opportunities in Clinical Veterinary Medicine&
#Provides opportunities for students who have completed the prerequisites to explore professional areas of clinical interest that are either not available or expand upon the veterinary curriculum. Please consult the VTMED 6605 syllabus for additional information.#
&VTMED 6608 | Clinical Oncology&
#Management and prevention of cancer in companion animals represents a significant component of the practice of veterinary medicine.  The focus of this clinical rotation is the development of a comprehensive set of skills necessary for a veterinarian to become an advocate for the client/patient with cancer.  These skills include appropriate initial evaluation of animals with cancer; sensitive and effective client and referring veterinarian communication; ability to access relevant information from numerous sources related to cancer management;and ability to  understand and apply principles of surgical, medical and radiation oncology as well as techniques specifically related to minimize pain and treatment-related side effects in cancer patients.#
&VTMED 6614 | Large Animal Emergency and Critical Care&
#The evaluation and management of critical patients and other emergency problems represents a significant component of the practice of large animal veterinary medicine.  As emergency cases are frequently presented to these practitioners, it is imperative such veterinarians are well prepared.  The focus of this clinical rotation is for students to acquire the knowledge, skills and thought processes necessary to triage large animal emergencies and manage critical patients.  These skills include the appropriate evaluation, stabilization and treatment of emergency patients, and the management of post-operative cases and other critical patients.  Participants access relevant information from various sources related to emergency and critical care medicine and surgery in an effort to understand and apply these principles to clinical cases.  Participants primarily have patient care responsibilities in the Large Animal Intensive Care Unit of the Cornell University Hospital for Animals and work closely with technicians and clinicians to develop familiarity with technical and nursing procedures.  In addition, students will learn common veterinary skills and techniques using teaching animals when time permits.  The large animal emergency and critical care rotation is primarily an after-hours rotation.#
&VTMED 6615 | Special Topics in Ambulatory and Production-Animal Medicine&
#Provides specialized opportunity in Production Medicine.  Consists of participation in an experience designed to improve knowledge and skills regarding producation systems. Examples of focus areas include livestock production medicine, poultry and fish farming, milk quality assessment, small ruminant medicine, herd management experience, and specialized diagnostic testing. This course is availble in 2 week increments after application to the course leader at least one month in advance of the rotation. Presentation of the completed expereince to a student club or in Ambulatory rounds is required.#
&VTMED 6616 | Small Animal Dentistry and Oral Surgery&
#This rotation is designed to introduce students to clinical small animal dentistry and oral surgery.  By the end of the rotation, students are expected to be capable of:  performing a thorough oral examination, obtaining and interpreting intraoral radiographs, discussing appropriate therapeutic options, performing basic periodontal procedures and simple and surgical extractions, and administering pertinent regional nerve blocks.#
&VTMED 6618 | Clinical Neurology&
#The Neurology/Neurosurgery (NNS) clinical rotation at Cornell University's College of Veterinary Medicine is a 2 week time period in which the student is directly involved in the diagnosis, management and treatment of animals with a diverse array of neurologic disorders. Gait evaluation and the neurological examination are skills that can be applied to any species and these are emphasized over the rotation. During the rotation students will have multiple opportunities to practice and get feedback on their neurological examinations. This allows students time and practice so that they can apply what they have learned to whichever species they intend to work with following graduation. We have previously discussed other species with neurological conditions and examinations when students have made their interests known. Although clinics is primarily devoted to dogs and cats, we occasionally consult with other services such as large animal medicine and surgery and exotics. The student is expected to assist in all aspects of the rotation, including case rounds, patient receiving, medical and surgical treatments, client communication, and record-keeping. In addition to learning through clinical exposure, the student will be taught principles of clinical neurology during "sit-down" topic rounds. The primary goal of the rotation for the student is for the student to become comfortable and confident in performing and correctly interpreting the neurologic examination in a clinical setting.  A secondary goal is the accumulation and application of practical clinical knowledge pertaining to neurologic diseases of companion animals. To do this effectively we discuss our clinical approach to cases so that students can practice their clinical decision making skills and approach to neurological patients.#
&VTMED 6619 | Clinical Pathology Rotation&
#This two-week course consolidates principles of clinical pathology and provides students with additional experience in using clinical pathology data to help with interpretation, diagnosis and management of clinical cases, through the use of archived and current clinical cases. Students will become more experienced and confident in examining blood and cytology smears, interpreting electrophoretogram results and working through clinical case material. Students are required to interpret a "mystery" slide (hematology or cytology) and case with clinical pathologic data in the last week of the rotation. There is substantial interaction with clinical pathology faculty, staff and residents. The case material can be somewhat tailored to the students' areas of interest.#
&VTMED 6623 | Clinical Rotation in Shelter Medicine: Principles and Practice&
#This clinical rotation embedded in SPCA of Tompkins County with travel to other area shelters. It exposes students to the principles and practice of veterinary medicine in a real animal shelter setting. Students will provide direct veterinary medical care to individual shelter animals and spend time learning and applying population health principles. These principles include infectious disease diagnosis, treatment, and management; shelter wellness and protocol-based medicine; shelter anesthesia, high-quality, high-volume spay-neuter and dentistry; shelter animal behavioral assessment, pharmaceuticals and modification, low-stress animal handling, and population and capacity planning. Cases vary with season and shelter intake. The daily schedule includes topic-based online modules, clinical work, and topic rounds. Students will also be expected to complete on-line webinars and assignments to round out their learning, and to prepare and give a live CE presentation for area shelter personnel. Although spay/neuter is certainly part of shelter medicine and will be part of this rotation, this is NOT a spay/neuter intensive rotation; caseload depends on the needs of the shelter(s). Weekend duty is optional and as-needed.This clinical rotation embedded in SPCA of Tompkins County exposes students to the principles and practice of veterinary medicine in a real animal shelter setting. While students will provide direct veterinary medical care to individual shelter animals, students will also spend time learning and applying population health principles. These principles include infectious disease diagnosis, treatment, and management; shelter wellness and protocol-based medicine; shelter anesthesia, high-quality, high-volume spay-neuter and dentistry; shelter animal behavioral assessment, pharmaceuticals and modification, low-stress animal handling, and population and capacity planning. Cases vary with season and shelter intake. The daily schedule includes topic-based online modules, clinical work, and topic rounds. Students will also be expected to complete several on-line webinars and assignments to round out their learning. Although spay/neuter is certainly part of shelter medicine and will be part of this rotation, this is NOT a spay/neuter intensive rotation; caseload will depend on the needs of the shelter(s). Week-end duty is optional and as-needed.#
&VTMED 6624 | Primary Care Surgery Service&
#The Primary Care Surgery service is a two-week rotation intended to provide students an opportunity to perform physical exams (with a focus on Fear Free technique) and surgical procedures in the context of general practice. The patients they treat and are ultimately responsible for, are adoptable shelter/rescue dogs and cats. Emphasis is placed on addressing patients from a comprehensive perspective: intake to discharge. Student clinicians are accountable for all peri-operative care. By the end of the rotation, students will have had the opportunity to improve physical exam skills, surgical competence, confidence, and efficiency within the limits of accepted technique. Student clinicians are highly encouraged to experience different methods of performing key skills. There is a significant focus on formulating appropriate treatment plans, the ergonomics of tying good knots, surgical technique as a primary care surgeon, and pain/anxiety management. Close attention is placed on writing thorough medical records and on client communication skills. Student surgeons work on critical decision making and collaboration with their team. Anesthesia support is provided by licensed veterinary technicians from the Anesthesia Service to ensure continuity in the methods of induction, patient monitoring, and recovery.#
&VTMED 6628 | Clinical Sports Medicine and Rehabilitation&
#The Clinical Sports Medicine and Rehabilitation Service focusses heavily on mobility and function and sees a variety of patients including primary lameness workups, post-surgical rehabilitation, sport dog conditioning, and geriatric care.  Foundation coursework in both physiology and musculoskeletal anatomy are applied to clinical cases from movement to healing to pain control.  Lameness workups include orthopedic and neurological examinations as well as functional assessment, objective gait analysis, and pain scoring.  Various modalities including but not limited to water therapy to neuromuscular electrical stimulation (NMES), therapeutic laser, acupuncture, extracorporeal shockwave, therapeutic ultrasound, and regenerative medicine will be introduced and incorporated as indicated.  The course will foster a unique clinical thought processes as a physical therapist to identify impairments and functional deficits, allowing for the development of appropriate physiotherapy goals and exercises.#
&VTMED 6629 | Wildlife Medicine&
#This rotation will expose students to the practice of wildlife medicine in a busy hospital setting with the guidance and mentorship of faculty, zoological medicine interns and residents, and four licensed wildlife technicians. Active participation in case management will provide the student with abundant hands-on experience in basic general clinical skills applicable to any species, an understanding of common native wildlife diseases and their management, as well as involvement in advanced wildlife medicine and surgery techniques. Students of any practice/career interest are welcome, and no prior wildlife experience is necessary. The rotation will be tailored to each student's career goals and experience level. No on-call duty is required.#
&VTMED 6630 | Clinical Exotic Animal Medicine&
#The rotation on clinical exotic animal medicine is meant to provide the basis for veterinary students to take care of non-traditional pets, including rabbits, ferrets, rodents, parrots, chickens, snakes, lizards and chelonians. Veterinary students will be involved in the daily activities of the Exotic Pet Service at Cornell University Hospital for Animals, such as examination, hospitalization, diagnostics and treatments of exotic pets.#
&VTMED 6724 | Senior Seminar&
#Attendance at 10 of the senior seminar sessions presented during the semester is required for completion of this course. Selected class members will serve as moderators for the senior seminar presentations. Other students will take brief on-line quizzes covering the information supplied in the seminars for the week. All students will pose questions on-line to the seniors presenting the seminars.#
&VTMED 6731 | Behavior Problems of Small Animals&
#The goal of this course is to give veterinary students the ability to treat common behavior problems of cats and dogs. Environmental management, behavior modification, and pharmacological treatments for behavior problems are described. History-taking, counseling, and follow-up methods also are presented.#
&VTMED 6733 | Veterinarians and Food-Animal Production Systems: An Introduction&
#This seminar course uses an interactive format and multiple experts from their fields to introduce future veterinarians to various food animal production systems, how veterinarians interact with them, and the synergy between these systems and veterinarians in society.  Each week the production structure of the dairy, beef, swine, poultry, or aquaculture industry, veterinarians' role in them, and career opportunities and expectations will be discussed.  The offering is intended for first- or second-year students so that they can plan appropriately to take additions courses or set up externships in the following years.#
&VTMED 6734 | Companion Animal Welfare Issues&
#Despite significant improvement being made over the last 10 years, homelessness remains one of the largest welfare issues for dogs and cats in this country with an estimated 3-4 million dogs and cats entering US animal shelters annually. While puppies and kittens and healthy adult dogs and cats are still euthanized in some shelters, euthanasia rates have dropped remarkably in the last decade. However, many animals are still bred and sold in the US in less than ideal conditions. The large population of free-roaming and feral cats is both a cause and effect of feline overpopulation; approaches to cat control are controversial and emotionally charged. Animal cruelty, abuse and neglect, including animal fighting and hoarding, represent issues with which veterinarians are becoming increasingly engaged in their communities. The number of well-intentioned pet owners seeking exotic companion animals as pets is increasing. As our community expands globally, welfare issues from abroad are also becoming more apparent. Other controversial issues that impact companion animal welfare include: non-therapeutic/elective surgeries, access to veterinary care, and quality of life measures with advancing technologies in veterinary medicine. The goal of the course is to provide the tools needed for veterinary students to assess the welfare of the companion animals they treat; and to provide information that enables them to begin developing their positions on some of the common companion animal welfare issues, allowing them to assume leadership roles with regards to such issues in their future communities.#
&VTMED 6735 | Conservation Medicine&
#Conservation Medicine will introduce students to the basic concepts of free-ranging and captive wildlife conservation and will engage veterinary students in diverse issues linking global biodiversity conservation and sustainable development. The course will present information not included in other courses within the curriculum that is fundamental for veterinarians contemplating a career in Conservation Medicine, Wildlife Health, or Zoological Medicine. Students will learn how wildlife populations are regulated by their environment, and how such populations are managed and assessed. Various habitat preservation strategies will be presented and discussed, as well as ex situ strategies for critically endangered species. One goal of the course is to introduce students to the many career paths available to them that are related to wildlife conservation. Grades will be based on individual student papers and group presentations, as well as participation.#
&VTMED 6736 | Pet Loss and Bereavement Counseling Course&
#This course introduces veterinary students to the key issues related to the loss of a companion animal and bereavement counseling. The course provides a structured background to assist students in developing the necessary skills to deal with clients and the grieving process. Students will participate in Cornell University's Pet Loss Support Hotline, a telephone-based community outreach program designed to provide support to callers grieving the loss of a companion animal.  Students actively participate in the prerequisite 9 hours of training in the Fall Semester, followed by hands-on experience staffing the Pet Loss Support Hotline. Requirements include attendance at both a Pet Loss Support Hotline sponsored lecture (usually scheduled in the evening) and a rounds discussion session, a case log of calls received and a one page case report.#
&VTMED 6739 | Overview of Complementary Therapies in Veterinary Medicine&
#This course will introduce the veterinary student to numerous complementary and alternative modalities currently being offered by veterinarians or requested by clients. Concerns and controversies will be discussed for each modality, along with how training can be acquired. Topics will include acupuncture, chiropractic, herbal medicine, rehabilitation and physical therapy, philosophies of energy medicine, homeopathy, integrative nutrition and nutraceuticals. Critical evaluation of the evidence for efficacy of these treatments will be emphasized, along with the current understanding of the contribution of the placebo effect to apparent response to treatment. The first 4 weeks of the course will emphasize large animals while the second 4 weeks emphasize small animals. Students may enroll in one or both portions of the class.#
&VTMED 6740 | Seminar in Topics of Global Veterinary Medicine&
#This seminar course that allows students to present their work in international veterinary medicine, and to discuss aspects of interest of global or international veterinary medicine among their peers. It will be a forum to present previous works and generate ideas for future international projects. Students will create and deliver presentations describing their experiences in projects in areas abroad during veterinary school. These presentations may be summaries of their clinical work or research, or presentations of topics such as animal welfare issues or socioeconomic issues of veterinarians in countries abroad. Students who have not been on a trip abroad may write about a topic of interest in a geographic area of interest, such as emerging diseases and outbreaks, cultural issues regarding animal care.#
&VTMED 6743 | One Health: Conservation with Communities&
#This course integrates life sciences, social sciences, medical sciences, and the humanities to explore the concept of "One Health", the idea that the health of the environment, animals and people are all inextricably linked. The course provides a comprehensive framework that will enable students to critically examine their perspectives and expand their view of the world, skills that are essential to a career in interdisciplinary Conservation Medicine. This course is also offered to undergraduate students, and preparatory for a summer course under the Cornell's Engaged Learning Program.#
&VTMED 6746 | Food Animal Welfare&
#This one credit S/U course will provide an overview of current topics in food animal welfare. Emphasis will be placed on veterinary issues and public perceptions of welfare of swine, poultry, fish, small ruminants, and beef and dairy cattle. Transport, slaughter, and euthanasia of all species will also be addressed. A welfare audit exercise will be conducted at the Veterinary College Teaching Dairy. Each student will be asked to do in-depth reading on a topic of importance to industry and veterinarians and to prepare a 3 to 5 page paper.#
&VTMED 6748 | Expanding Horizons&
#The Expanding Horizons course offers Cornell veterinary students an opportunity to gain experience in international veterinary medicine and engage in novel veterinary medicine experiences outside of the United States. Students spend the summer (typically 8-10 weeks) or clinical blocks (6 weeks) participating in an independent veterinary research project or veterinary experience in a foreign country. Students are responsible for identifying contacts in the country of interest, developing a project idea, and submitting a written project proposal to the International Experiences Committee for consideration. College faculty and the Office of Student and Academic Services may assist and advise students on project development and preparation for the experience. Students in the course will be assessed through participation in virtual, asynchronous course activities.#
&VTMED 6749 | Agile Innovation in Animal Health-Hackathon&
#The course is designed to complement the Animal Health Hackathon and will focus on the challenges and opportunities related to animal health entrepreneurship and innovation. Veterinary students will work in diverse teams with students from other programs on campus to gain a broader perspective of both the challenges (e.g., organizational and institutional) and opportunities (e.g., unmet customer needs and possibilities for future ventures) in this sector. Students will learn and apply team innovation processes, business model innovation, design thinking, creativity management, product pitches, data analysis, critical thinking, and product innovation.#
&VTMED 6750 | The Healer's Art&
#Compassion fatigue in veterinary medicine has effected a broad search for etiologies and effective educational interventions. Recent research suggests that finding personal meaning in ones' daily work is highly correlated with diminished compassion fatigue (lack of meaning is considered a main cause of compassion fatigue). The Healer's Art is a nationally recognized curriculum that provides opportunities to explore meaning and helps participants to develop self-care and to establish a foundation for resilience. Through an interactive, process-based program, participants can create a supportive and judgment-free community, allowing inquiry between DVM students and graduate DVM facilitators. This course is scheduled in the evening to prevent conflict with other courses and to allow a more relaxed and stress free time for self-reflection, discovery and sharing.#
&VTMED 6752 | Veterinary Forensic Medicine and Pathology&
#Veterinarians are uniquely qualified to recognize potential animal cruelty and are required to report suspected cruelty in the state of NY. The public demands that perpetrators of animal cruelty be held accountable, even though the definition of cruelty varies from state to state, and prosecution willingness varies by county. Although forensic medicine and pathology rely on the same basic principles and methods used for conventional veterinary medical investigations, the analytical framework and purpose differ significantly, as do the risks and rewards. If the investigation does not meet the needs of the court, the effort is wasted. Through lectures from the pathology and shelter medicine faculty as well as ASPCA forensic department guests, this course provides students with the theoretical framework and practical information needed to participate in animal cruelty investigations for live and deceased animals.The public care deeply about animal welfare and demand that perpetrators of animal cruelty be held accountable, even though the definition of cruelty varies from state to state. Veterinarians are uniquely qualified to recognize potential animal cruelty and are required to report suspected cruelty in the state of NY. Animal cruelty is but one facet of interpersonal violence. Although forensic medicine and pathology rely on the same basic principles and methods used for conventional veterinary medical investigations, the analytical framework and purpose differ significantly. If the investigation does not meet the needs of the court, the effort is wasted. Through lectures from the pathology and shelter medicine teams as well as ASPCA forensic department guests, this course provides students with the theoretical framework and practical information needed to conduct animal cruelty investigations for live and deceased animals.#
&VTMED 6754 | Small Animal Euthanasia: Clinical Communications and Practice&
#If you are feeling uncomfortable, unprepared, or worried about discussing and performing euthanasia, you are not alone; and this course is for you. Or, if you just want to experience discussing and practicing performing euthanasia before having to provide this essential procedure for a client and their loved one, this is the course you want. A survey of veterinary schools found that the majority of veterinarians are still learning the procedure or seeing it for the first-time post-graduation (Cooney et al, 2021). It seems that, at most, only 25% of veterinary students graduate with first-hand euthanasia experience (McVety, 2017). This course is meant to improve those numbers here at Cornell. Through immersive laboratories and active-learning-focused lectures, students will (1) expand their knowledge and (2) refine clinical communication and practical skills as they relate to veterinary euthanasia of small animals.#
&VTMED 6756 | Advanced Topics in Clinical Behavioral Medicine&
#This course is meant to provide students with a review of the literature on common behavior issues, which will be applied to clinical cases in the Behavior Service.  The class will involve weekly 2-hour journal review sessions.  The information then will be applied to clinical cases seen with the Behavior Service.  Each student will be required to lead a discussion session and observe at least two clinical behavior cases before leading a case with the Behavior Service.  Students who lead a case will be responsible for communicating with the pet owners to obtain a detailed history, assigning a diagnosis, and developing a comprehensive treatment plan.#
&VTMED 6757 | A History of Surgery&
#This course aims to provide a general overview of the history of surgery through delving into historical figures, concepts, and techniques. Through introducing this historical perspective, the hope is that both a fuller understanding as well as greater appreciation for surgical concepts and techniques is had. The primary focus of this course is the history of human medicine and surgery. Veterinary correlates will be introduced where applicable. Themes that we will focus on during this course indlcue resilience and quality.#
&VTMED 6770 | Veterinary ePortfolio&
#This asynchronous course intends to help DVM students learn the skills required to create an ePortfolio that will provide a source of professional and personal differentiation through the documentation of their personal and professional development. The ePortfolio will showcase the student's own reflection on key knowledge and skills acquired during their professional development journey, both through their extra-curricular activities and their academic education. It will also present the student's self-assessment of developmental achievements and define the who, what, and why of the veterinary professional they strive to become. The course will utilize multi-source feedback (peers, educators, and outside reviewers) as a driver for self-regulated learning that will ultimately lead to identity development, professional growth, and differentiation.#
&VTMED 6771 | Personal Finance&
#This course intends to teach essential financial skills regarding personal debt management, budgeting, and savings, with an emphasis in the formulation of financial decision-making strategies that effectively utilize acquired financial competence to increase the student's level of financial literacy. Topics include financial planning, budgeting, managing / paying off student and personal debt, goal creation, strategy and decision making, understanding credit and investment products, interest rates, simple and compounding interest, time value of money concepts, opportunity costs, savings and planning for the future, savings vehicles, salary and wages, employment benefits, value of complete compensation packages, and income taxes.#
&VTMED 6772 | Managerial Accounting and Inventory Management&
#This course intends to teach essential concepts of managerial accounting and lean inventory management. We will define the components of financial statements and explore their use for strategic decision making. Topics include financial statements, profit and cash flow, financial management and analysis, forecasting, budgeting, leverage, capital, funding, activity-based costing, capital expenditure analysis, TVM, discounted cash flow analysis, and practice valuation. We will also define the costs associated with purchasing, ordering, and holding inventory as related to veterinary practices. Topics include inventory costs, ABC analysis, demand management and forecasting, ordering strategies, safety stock, re-order point, order quantity, distributor specials, and management performance analysis. This course is a prerequisite for the Practice Ownership and Management course offered in 3rd year.#
&VTMED 6773 | Services Marketing&
#This course intends to teach essential concepts of services marketing with an emphasis on helping develop customer service skills that lead to customer satisfaction and business success / growth. We will explore quality improvement processes and strategies to maintain high quality of service. Concepts include customer service skills, assessment of customer satisfaction, market segment, target market, positioning strategy, market mix, service recovery system, marketing opportunities and research tools, and administration / analysis of customer surveys for business decision making amongst others.#
&VTMED 6774 | Veterinary Contracts and Negotiation&
#This course intends to teach essential legal concepts surrounding veterinary employment contracts as it relates to salary, employee benefits, taxation of compensation packages, and enforceability of contract line items, specifically around termination, restrictive covenants, and liquidated damages. It will explore the art and science of contract negotiation, including the legal components of the negotiation interest list and the general process of contract negotiation within the veterinary profession.#
&VTMED 6775 | Medical Records and Informed Consent&
#This course intends to teach essential legal concepts surrounding the business and legal reasons for proper medical records and the type of documentation that creates proper medical records. It will explore the regulation of veterinary licensure by state board licensing authority, the requirements for obtaining and maintaining veterinary licensure, and the concepts surrounding compliant behavior and consumer complaints. Students will explore the laws impacting drug use within veterinary medicine, including the use of legend, compounded, and extra-label-use drugs. The course will additionally explore the legal requirements to obtain informed consent from owners before treatment.#
&VTMED 6776 | Practice Ownership and Management&
#This course intends to teach essential concepts of establishing and managing a veterinary practice by pairing classroom deliveries with guided exercises exploring realities of veterinary practice. Topics include practice ownership models and pathways, types of business organization, business ownership, financial and organizational management, operational strategy and efficiency, market analysis, services and fee structures, asset needs, decisions on capital and funding for equipment / facilities, leverage, capital expenditure analysis, time value of money, management of human capital, interpersonal communication, business implications of the veterinary medicine landscape, business and personal risk management, leadership, and practice value creation. Accounting and Inventory Management course is a prerequisite.#
&VTMED 6779 | CVBE Capstone II&
#This course intends to create an individual project-based experience in veterinary business that expands and incorporates the knowledge acquired through prerequisite courses that focus on financial literacy, personal and professional development, financial and organizational management, and entrepreneurship. Students who meet course prerequisites will apply for course enrollment directly to instructor by supplying project proposal. Course students will develop a project in collaboration with a CVBE stakeholder that will utilize and implement veterinary business and management skills. Students will complete their project in a manner that does not interfere with clinical responsibilities. Students will finalize their capstone experience through delineated deliverables.#
&VTMED 6895 | 3rd Year Clinical Experience&
#Students will spend 2 weeks (90 hours) working on a clinical service or nursing care unit. Responsibilities vary depending on service/unit structure. Up to 10 hours per week may involve independent study or research. Evening and weekend shifts may be required. Each participating service or unit will have its own section of the course with a faculty instructor responsible for oversight of the experience and assigning the grade.#
&VTMED 6896 | Topics in Veterinary Medicine&
#This course provides an opportunity for faculty to pilot a new course, or to offer a new course on a temporary basis and/or after the deadline for course submission has passed.#
&VTMED 6897 | Teaching Projects in Veterinary Medicine&
#This is a variable credit course in which students contribute to the teaching of a course in the veterinary curriculum (VTMED). Student responsibilities may include providing instructional support in laboratories, preparing teaching material, giving presentations, providing feedback to students on assignments, grading, or performing other appropriate tasks. Students are assessed based on the quality of performance in their responsibilities. Students a required to submit a brief reflection summarizing what they have accomplished and learned as a result of the teaching project. Projects must be submitted via the online application process before the first day of the term.#
&VTMED 6898 | Special Projects in Veterinary Medicine&
#Students work individually with a CVM faculty member to pursue an area of particular interest that is not part of the established curriculum. Specific course objectives and course content should be relevant to career interests in veterinary medicine and should reflect the expertise of the faculty. Students are required to submit a brief reflection summarizing what they accomplished and learned as a result of the special project. Projects must be submitted via the online application process before the first day of the term.#
&VTMED 6899 | Research Projects in Veterinary Medicine&
#Students work individually in the research environment of a CVM faculty member involved in veterinary or biomedical research. Specific course objectives and course content should be relevant to career interests in veterinary medicine and should reflect the expertise of the faculty. Students are required to submit a brief reflection summarizing what they accomplished and learned as a result of the research opportunity. Projects must be submitted via the online application process before the first day of the term.#


$VTPEH | Veterinary Medicine Public and Ecosystem Health$
&VTPEH 4990 | Undergraduate Research in Public Health&
#Research credits with public health program faculty may include topics of public health and environmental change, food security, local agriculture, and civic engagement. Contact faculty in the program directly to inquire about available research topics/projects.#
&VTPEH 6100 | Public Health Colloquium&
#Practitioners in the field of public health discuss current, cross-cutting issues affecting scholarship and practice.#
&VTPEH 6102 | Public Health Foundations II&
#This course is rooted in a systems perspective. It connects behavioral theory to practice, so that students understand the complex array of factors that influence health. It provides a foundation in drivers of human behavior, which will ultimately help students better understand why a particular situation exists. The course also builds necessary background knowledge and skill that will aid in designing tailored, effective, culturally informed interventions. This course will reinforce and expand upon learning from Public Health Foundations I by addressing drivers of health and behavior, including individual, family, environmental, legal, institutional, cultural, and climate change. Conceptually, the course is guided by the Health Impact Pyramid, social determinants of health - with a particular emphasis on racism, discrimination and inequality - and an expanded socio-ecologic model. We draw on a lifecourse perspective, with particular attention to generational and cumulative impacts on populations. Through lectures, guided in-class activities, readings, discussion, guest speakers and case studies, students will further develop their public health competence and apply key concepts and systems thinking to assess domestic and global public health issues.#
&VTPEH 6103 | Public Health Policy&
#The purpose of this course is to consider and learn to advance policy issues confronting public health practitioners, governments and the public in public health systems in the United States, and around the world. This class presents an overview of the basic institutions, politics, and policy issues of contemporary public health policymaking, how they have changed over time, and why politics matters for public health, including ethical consequences of policy choices for different stakeholder populations. The class helps future public health leaders develop a basic framework for understanding, analyzing, evaluating, and advocating for public health policies using case-based learning of current public health issues facing the U.S. and the globe. During the course, students will select a pressing public health need, undertake a policy evaluation process to understand the impact on public health and health equity, propose evidence-based solutions, and then advocate as public health leaders for policies that will improve health and in diverse populations.#
&VTPEH 6105 | Biostatistics for Health Sciences&
#Teaches statistical concepts and application for health related data analysis.  The course will relate health and biological sciences data back to Gaussian, non-Gaussian, Poisson, Binomial, and other distributions. Topics in descriptive statistics include summary measures, measure of association, concepts related to data distribution, and confidence intervals. Topics related to analytical analysis include categorical data, parametric and non-parametric population comparisons and correlation, and regression techniques. Students will be exposed to a variety of software packages, but will also be expected to calculate the simple statistical approaches as well. Emphasizes the understanding of statistical concepts and application and the structure of health data.#
&VTPEH 6108 | Applied Data Analysis&
#This course serves to complement data-oriented public health courses to help students hone their data cleaning and analysis skills.#
&VTPEH 6113 | Advanced Epidemiologic Methods&
#This course will introduce students to statistical methods commonly used to analyze epidemiologic data and to understand advanced epidemiologic concepts necessary to interpret the results. By the end of the course, students will be able to properly use and interpret linear regression, logistic regression, Poisson regression, and survival analysis. Key concepts in molecular epidemiology will also be covered.#
&VTPEH 6122 | Public Health Nutrition&
#The goal of this course is to consider the three core public health functions of assessment, policy development and assurance, with specific application to public health nutrition. The course will explore examples of these functions in the US and in other industrialized countries, as well as in multiple low and middle-income country settings, and provide tools for analyzing differences, similarities, and fit with context. Focal topics include the multi-faceted causes of nutritional problems, including social and environmental determinants, and trends in prevalence such as the nutrition transition and impacts on undernutrition, micronutrient deficiencies, to overweight and obesity.#
&VTPEH 6131 | Disaster Policy and Politics&
#This course helps students understand various political institutions, and how they influence disaster response and resilience.  Policy requires politics: behind every positive or negative decision governments make, there are elected politicians, politically skilled officials, journalists, and other stakeholders. Understanding the world of politics is crucial to influencing and implementing policies- or even to understand the landscape in which any public health organization must operate. These political challenges are magnified during times of disasters, with new opportunities for competing incentives and things to go wrong. Understanding, engaging with and developing crucial strategic factors in public health emergency management requires navigating policy processes and political institutions.#
&VTPEH 6142 | Health, Wellbeing, and The Enviornment&
#Understanding the concepts connecting people's health and wellbeing and the environment is critical to identifying the causes of planetary health issues and proposing efficient solutions. The course will cover key concepts governing planetary health issues, including ecological interactions, scales at which planetary health phenomena occur, and biodiversity. We will review the data and methods available for the consideration of each of those concepts in real-world planetary health studies. We will discuss how to use those concepts to identify causes, leverage points, and trade-offs for planetary health issues, with the objective of developing fair and sustainable solutions. To illustrate these concepts, the course draws on diverse case studies, including infectious diseases, urbanization, and nature connectedness, offering practical insights into the complexities of planetary health challenges.#
&VTPEH 6176 | Public Health and Environmental Justice: Insights from Critical Humanities&
#In this round-table graduate seminar, we will critically engage with cross-cutting topics in health and environmental justice through interdisciplinary humanities lenses including political ecology, science and technology studies, feminist studies, environmental governance, sociology, anthropology, philosophy, history, and ethics. We will dive deep in discussions of weekly readings spanning these fields, in addition to grey literature, podcasts, and videos. Students co-facilitate discussions tying contemporary news to course themes that span nature and land, scientific knowledge, race and human classification, climate change and natural disaster, microbes and disease, multispecies perspectives, expertise and public engagement, bodies and built environments, world ecologies and capital, food and water system transformations, and more. Students also build toward an advocacy paper, written for a professional audience on a topic of interest.#
&VTPEH 6177 | Case Studies in Global and Public Health&
#The goal of this seminar is to invite graduate and undergraduate students studying global and public health to integrate their knowledge, applied experience and professional interests to explore, and analyze public health case studies, with opportunities to experiment with new forms of case study approaches.  The class will highlight two distinct approaches to case studies in global and public health, providing students with the unique opportunity to: 1) analyze global and public health challenges, policies and responses from different country and health systems perspectives 2) integrate the arts and humanities to deepen understanding of global public health issues, controversies and solutions, 3) develop problem solving, communication, critical reflection and interprofessional skills and 4) engage in active and participatory class discussions.#
&VTPEH 6179 | Toxicology in Public Health&
#Toxicology is the study of adverse impacts of chemicals on living organisms and ecosystems. The importance of toxicology to public health was realized by English surgeon Percival Pott, who realized that men who worked as chimney sweeps were at high risk of cancer, what was later identified as squamous cell carcinoma. The continuing importance of public health toxicology is illustrated by recent high-profile incidents including the water crises in Flint Michigan due to lead and in Toledo, Ohio due to natural toxins, and air quality-related health issues caused by wildfires in western US states and by vinyl chloride due to a train crash in Ohio. This class will discuss the basic principles of toxicology, physiologic and public health impacts, and public health toxicology in practice.#
&VTPEH 6182 | Public Health Practice - Planning&
#Via this seminar, students will gain an understanding of the elements of needs‐ and evidence‐based public health program and/or response planning, and will design a public health project/response to address a defined need related to prevention, treatment, and/or care. This course will cover the core elements of program planning, including concept mapping, logic models, work plans, Gantt charts, and basic budgets and staffing plans. This will be practiced via in-depth discussion of real‐life cases, and by self‐directed research, planning, grant writing, and peer review.#
&VTPEH 6192 | Public Health Ethics, Leadership and Interprofessional Collaborative Practice&
#The goal of this course is to prepare students for applied practice and careers in public health by developing knowledge and skills in public health ethics, leadership and interprofessional collaborative practice. Whether students are experienced practitioners or just starting out in their professional careers, this course aims to 1) facilitate critical thinking, 2) introduce ethical inquiry and analysis for decision making, 3) utilize leadership principles and strategies for team performance and community building, and 4) build skills in interprofessional collaboration and critical reflection to promote and advance health equity and public health.#
&VTPEH 6193 | Special Topics in Public Health&
#The department teaches "trial" courses under this number. Offerings vary by semester and are advertised by the department before the semester starts. Courses offered under the number will be approved by the department curriculum committee, and the same course is not offered more than twice under this number.#
&VTPEH 6195 | Public Health Integrative Learning and Portfolio&
#The purpose of this class is to help guide and support the successful completion of your Integrative Learning Experience (ILE) project, or written "capstone", that demonstrates your integrated competence across concentration and foundational public health domains. Weekly writing time will help you stay on track to complete a substantive, high-quality written document within a relatively short semester time period, while working independently and with a faculty mentor. In addition this semester, you will complete and polish your professional public health portfolio.#
&VTPEH 6990 | Graduate Research in Public Health&
#Research credits with public health program faculty may include topics of public health and environmental change, food security, local agriculture, civic engagement, health equity, social justice, environmental justice. Contact faculty in the program directly to inquire about available research topics/projects.#


$VTPMD | Vet Med Population Medicine & Diagnostic Services$
&VTPMD 2990 | Undergraduate Research in Epidemiology&
#Mentored research apprenticeship program designed to give laboratory experience in applied epidemiology to qualified unmatriculated high school students (participating in Cornell Summer College) or Cornell underclassmen. Students are placed in a research laboratory with a designed project under the direct supervision of a research associate (upper-level graduate student, post-doc, or faculty member). Students are graded on preparation, participation in laboratory, academic life, and appropriate acquisition of techniques. At the end of the six-week session, they are expected to give a brief (15- to 20-minute) oral presentation on their work and submit a manuscript in a form suitable for publication. The faculty director of the laboratory has ultimate responsibility for evaluating each student's work and assigning the grade.#
&VTPMD 6650 | Study Designs&
#Design and interpretation of cross-sectional, case-control, and cohort studies (including controlled clinical trial). Design issues include sample size, bias, and relative advantages and disadvantages. Course objectives are to (1) know the difference between different epidemiologic study designs and relative advantages and disadvantages of each; (2) given a problem (usually a field situation), be able to design an appropriate epidemiologic study; (3) be able to effectively analyze and criticize published epidemiologic studies. Consists of lectures on the principles of epidemiologic study design and related issues (sample size calculations, validity and precision, and identification and minimizing of bias); basic analysis of epidemiologic data; and discussion of published epidemiologic studies. These include observational cohort studies (prospective and retrospective), crosssectional studies, case-control studies, and hybrid studies (ambidirectional and other hybrid designs).#
&VTPMD 7080 | Epidemiology Seminar Series&
#Discusses advanced theoretical and analytical epidemiologic concepts and techniques.#
&VTPMD 7660 | Graduate Research&
#Enables students outside the section of epidemiology to receive graduate research credits for projects with epidemiological components.#
&VTPMD 7990 | Independent Studies in Epidemiology&
#The purpose of this course is to investigate an epidemiologic topic with one of the instructors. It provides experience in problem definition, research design, and the analysis of epidemiologic data.#


$WOLOF | Wolof$
&WOLOF 1118 | Elementary Wolof II&
#This course is a continuation of the basic introductory Wolof course. It aims to build students' basic understanding of the sentence structure of the language. It combines written and oral practice based on major cultural aspects of traditional and modern Wolof society.#
&WOLOF 2119 | Intermediate Wolof II&
#This course will further your awareness and understanding of the Wolof language and culture, as well as improve your mastery of grammar, writing skills, and oral skills. Course materials will incorporate various types of text including tales, cartoons, as well as multimedia such as films, videos, and audio recordings.#
&WOLOF 3114 | Advanced Wolof II&
#As a continuation of WOLOF 3113, this course will continue to expand your knowledge of the Wolof language and culture. It will enhance your command of complex grammar, written forms, and oral expression. Course materials will incorporate various text types, including tales, poetry, literature, and multimedia, such as television and radio. At the end of the course, you will present an analysis of an authentic oral or written text to an audience, formulate a position surrounding the text, and respond spontaneously to questions.#


$WRIT | Writing Program$
&WRIT 1038 | Tutorial in Academic Writing&
#This writing seminar is designed for students who need more focused attention to master the expectations of academic writing. The course emphasizes the analytic and argumentative writing and critical reading essential for university-level work.#
&WRIT 1380 | FWS: Elements of Academic Writing&
#Join this course to study the essential elements of academic writing and to learn flexible and sustainable strategies for producing interesting, clear, and precise academic prose that can address a variety of audiences and meet diverse rhetorical aims. WRIT 1370/WRIT 1380 is a smaller FWS (capped at 12 students) that spends more time navigating the steps in the writing process in order to respond to each student's individual needs and build confidence and reflective practice. As in all FWSs, students practice higher-order thinking, close reading, and analyzing evidence. They also complete 4-5 major writing assignments. This course places greater emphasis on in-class writing, one-on-one conferences with the teacher, peer workshopping, discussion, and learning to talk about how different types of writing work. Students will deeply engage diverse course materials (journalism, scholarly articles, podcasts, films, etc.) on topics like art, literature, and relevant social issues to explore ideas about a text, write for specific audiences, and develop creativity, style and voice.  Follow this link for more information: WRIT 1370/80 - Elements of Academic Writing.#
&WRIT 1390 | Special Topics in Writing&
#This course provides the opportunity for students to resolve significant writing challenges that have interfered with their academic progress. Students must have ongoing writing projects on which to work. Instruction is in weekly tutorials. Interested students should go to 174 Rockefeller for more information.#
&WRIT 2101 | Responding to Writing: Theory and Pedagogy&
#Although many of us have experiences being taught to write, helping someone else improve their writing in ways that respect their agency and cultivate learning is often not intuitive. In order to learn about ethical and educational methods of tutoring, this course introduces scholarship on tutoring, writing centers, and writing pedagogy. We will be critically thinking about your own writing process and experiences, responding to another's writing, collaborative learning strategies, multilingual writing challenges, ethical considerations in peer tutoring, and the ways in which race and other facets of identity affect tutoring and learning. With an emphasis on the connection between theory and practice, you will get tutored, observe and reflect on tutoring sessions, practice reading and responding to sample student writing, and develop your own tutoring pedagogy—a theory of tutoring that considers the relationship between tutoring practices and the values those practices imply. The aim of the course is to cultivate knowledge and flexibility in the use of tutoring strategies for supporting agency and growth in diverse writers working on a variety of genres from across the disciplines.#
&WRIT 7101 | Writing in the Majors Seminar&
#Teaching assistants assigned to Writing in the Majors projects enroll in a six-week course on teaching strategies in advanced instruction.#


$YORUB | Yoruba$
&YORUB 1109 | Introduction to Yoruba II&
#A two-semester beginner's course in Yoruba Language and Culture. Organized to offer Yoruba language skills and proficiency in speaking, reading, listening, writing, and translation. Focus is placed on familiar informal and formal contexts, e.g., home, school, work, family, social situations, politics, etc. Course uses Yoruba oral literature, proverbs, rhetoric, songs, popular videos, and theater, as learning tools for class comprehension. First semester focuses on conversation, speaking, and listening.  Second semester focuses on writing, translation and grammatical formation. Through the language course students gain basic background for the study of an African culture, arts, and history both in the continent and in the diaspora. Yoruba language is widely spoken along the west coast of Africa and in some African communities in diaspora.  Yoruba video culture, theater, music, and arts has a strong influence along the west coast and in the diaspora.A two-semester beginner's course in Yoruba language and culture. Organized to offer Yoruba language skills and proficiency in speaking, reading, listening, writing, and translation. Focus is placed on familiar informal and formal contexts, e.g., home, school, work, family, social situations, politics. Course uses Yoruba oral literature, proverbs, rhetoric, songs, popular videos, and theater as learning tools for class comprehension. First semester focuses on conversation, speaking, and listening. Second semester focuses on writing, translation, and grammatical formation. Through the language course students gain basic background for the study of an African culture, arts, and history both on the continent and in the diaspora. Yoruba language is widely spoken along the west coast of Africa and in some African communities in diaspora. Yoruba video culture, theater, music, and arts have strong influence along the west coast and in the diaspora.#
&YORUB 2111 | Intermediate Yoruba II&
#Intermediate Yoruba II is a follow-up to Intermediate Yoruba I. It is a fourth-semester Yoruba language course. The course assists students to acquire advanced level proficiency in reading, speaking, writing, and listening in Yoruba language. Students are introduced to grammatical and syntactic structures in the language that will assist them in describing, presenting, and narrating information in the basic tenses. At the end of the course, students will be able to listen to, process, and understand programs produced for native speakers in media such as television, radio, and films. They will be able to read and understand short stories, novels, and plays written for native speakers of the language.#


$ZULU | Zulu$
&ZULU 1116 | Elementary Zulu II&
#Development of communication skills through dialogues and role play. Texts and songs are drawn from traditional and popular literature. Students research daily life in selected areas of South Africa.#
&ZULU 2117 | Intermediate Zulu II&
#Students read longer texts from popular media as well as myths and folktales. Prepares students for initial research involving interaction with speakers of isiZulu in South Africa and for the study of oral and literary genres.#
&ZULU 3114 | Advanced Zulu II&
#Readings may include short stories, a novel, praise poetry, historical texts, or contemporary political speeches, depending on student interests. Study of issues of language policy and use in contemporary South Africa; introduction to the Soweto dialect of isiZulu. Students are prepared for extended research in South Africa involving interviews with isiZulu speakers.#
